The widow Niu Cuilan rose before the sky was light to wash, comb her hair,and dress because today her lover Wei Bo would probably come to see her. Cuilanwas thirty-fiveyears old, in what she believed to be a woman’s best time of life.Her husband had died eight years earlier. Wei Bo was forty-eight.He worked ina soap factory, although he was well-educatedfor an unskilled worker.Cuilan and Wei Bo had met a year before at a hot spring spa that offered sexamong its services. Cuilan had gone to bathe in the hot springs. After she finishedsoaking she climbed out languidly, went to the changing room to put onher clothing, and got ready to go home. It was still early. The customers appearedand disappeared like ghosts in the steam. Some of them bumped her elbowssuggestively. Cuilan, filled with destructive rage, spat on the ground after them.That was when she caught sight of Wei Bo, furtive and louche in a plum-coloredworkout shirt. She knew at once what he had come here for and snickered, sayingto herself, What’s he thinking, wearing workout clothes to a place like this?As they brushed shoulders in the narrow hallway (he was heading toward the“special services” area), Cuilan shoved Wei Bo viciously with her elbow, so hardthat he shouted and stuck close to the wall.Who could have known that the man on his way to the prostitutes would becomeCuilan’s lover? Wei Bo later told her that he had gone to the spa that day for its sex services, but when he left, his mind was not emptied, as it usually was,of all desire. Instead he felt distracted. He quickly realized the cause. He went tothe reception hall to find out Cuilan’s contact information, asking around untilhe made his way to her apartment. The two experts went right to bed and had agood time, leaving their bodies covered in sweat.Wei Bo had a family. He also had a few illicit sources of “gray income” that lethim escape to places like the hot spring spa every now and then. He was fairlypotent, in that regard, and skillful. At first Cuilan had been satisfied with hernew life. She discarded the other partners she’d had and cheerfully enjoyed thisnew passion. As for Wei Bo himself, she could not claim to be infatuated, but shefelt that having this one lover was enough. She was particular about the quality ofher sex life. Wei Bo usually came to see her two or three times a month.Over time, Cuilan came to see Wei Bo as her underground husband. She wasan independent woman who thought it only right to have an underground husband.Wasn’t this what life was all about? It was only right to have some happiness.His full name was Wei Siqiang, or Wei Four Powers, a vulgar name. Sincehe acted mature for his age, everyone had started calling him Uncle Wei, or WeiBo, when he turned thirty. Cuilan especially liked to call him Wei Bo.Cuilan hurried through breakfast, tidied the apartment’s two bedrooms andliving room until they were completely clean, then retouched her eyeliner in themirror. She felt a little nervy today, for no apparent reason, and jumped withalarm whenever she heard the sound of steps in the hallway, believing her loverhad arrived. Every time it was her neighbors passing, and not him. She was disappointedby her loss of dignity. Cuilan had never thought that she was the kindof woman to simper or ingratiate herself with men. She walked over to the refrigeratorand opened it, took out a few mangoes, washed them, peeled the skins,and ate. Her hands and face were soiled, ruining her tasteful makeup. Still irritated,she didn’t touch up the makeup. She wanted Wei Bo to see the real Cuilan.It was almost noon when someone cautiously knocked four times on the door.It was him. Cuilan’s mind filled with suspicion because she had not heard WeiBo’s footsteps. Was he trying to play a trick on her? She looked at the man, rememberingthe hellish suffering of her morning, and was suddenly all out ofideas.“Cuilan, I came to tell you that I have to go right away. Something importantat home.”His face had a look of genuine honesty.“You might have called,” Cuilan said apprehensively.“Called?” He seemed surprised. “Would calling be right? That’s no way totreat you. Aren’t we a couple? I love you.”He had to go as soon as he finished saying this, and so he did.As though in a dream Cuilan sat for a long time motionless at the table. Heremotions had been strained to a high pitch since early morning. Her behaviorwas inexplicable. She remembered how she had looked at herself in the mirrorrepeatedly, rapidly changed the way she was wearing her hair, twice, and evenwiped off her makeup. Now, though, all that waiting had brought was this man’stwo-minutelayover. He had seemed restless, so much so that he failed to look ather face even once. Something important must have happened at home. Cuilantried not to guess what it was. She never went looking for trouble. Oh, today shereally was down on her luck. A whole day off wasted, and tomorrow she wouldhave to go back to the gauges and meters factory where she was a warehouseclerk.The next day Cuilan worked overtime at the factory and came home late, soshe went to a small noodle shop called Heaven on Earth instead of making dinner.The restaurant was on a street near her home. Since it was already late, onlytwo or three customers were there when she entered, and they soon got up toleave. She sat by herself in a corner, which suited her. Before long her peace wasshattered.The glass door of the noodle shop was kicked open with a bang. A slick, overdresseddandy, a man Cuilan recognized as one of the city’s antiques appraisers,followed. She had never seen him behave so rudely. The man, whose surnamewas You, greeted Cuilan and sat down opposite her. She eyed the street throughthe window. She didn’t want to talk, because she was tired and not in a very goodmood.“Have you been to the spa recently? They’ve added a premium service calleda fish bath where a school of little fish nibble the dirt off of your body. A veryoriginal way to relax.”Mr. You showed two rows of snow-whiteteeth as he talked. Cuilan thought helooked like a wolfhound. She snorted without answering, thinking he was tryingto provoke her.“Someone you know was in the pool with me yesterday.”At this moment Cuilan’s mushroom and vegetable noodles arrived. Sheburied her face in her food.“Aren’t you interested in what I was going to tell you?” Mr. You watched herattentively.“No, not at all!”Cuilan stood as she answered and went to pay her bill at the counter. Sheheard Mr. You’s plaintive sigh behind her, but with an effort she kept from lookingat him, even though she was curious. Mr. You might be staring at her at thisvery moment. She felt a pain in her back as though she were being stabbed byneedles.Niu Cuilan resolved to get her life back on the right track. What she called theright track was the relatively calm existence she’d enjoyed before taking a regularlover. There had been a few other flings, but ending things was as easy as sayingso afterward. She had never believed herself to be the type of person who can’tmake a clean break. The affair with Wei Bo was good enough, but it was nothingshe could eat. People still have to eat, and they have to seek out other pleasures.Besides, nothing had happened. There had never been anything between them.A brief affair between lovers, as temporary as the dew, was best. Two months hadpassed since that day off without Wei Bo reappearing. Cuilan noticed her calmness.She was so calm it surprised her.The work at the instrument factory was monotonous and untaxing, as hardlyneeds saying. Her relationships with her coworkers were neither warm nor cold.Cuilan’s sole amusement was bathing in the hot springs, but the city’s only spawas also a brothel. Her distaste was not strong enough to repulse her, so she decidedto go back on a Sunday. She thought it would be all right as long as shedidn’t run into Mr. You.That Saturday night she had a dream. She saw herself swimming the breaststrokein the hot spring pool when she caught hold of someone’s foot. She stoodup, frightened, and looked into the surrounding mists, seeing someone in thebamboo plants on the other side who called to her, “Niu Cuilan! Niu Cuilan!”She dashed into the changing room, put on her clothes, glanced at her watch,and saw that it was two in the morning. She couldn’t remember why she hadcome to the hot springs at this hour. She passed through the reception hall to theentrance, but the door was shut and locked. Terror struck her heart. She drippedwith cold sweat. At this instant, the silhouette of a man appeared. To her surprise,it was Wei Bo. Cuilan forced a smile that was not a smile and said, “Are youhere to get your fill? Good! Who can help me open the front door?”Wei Bo said he would find someone, then changed direction and went into themain building. Cuilan sat down in a lounge chair beside the walkway. She waiteda long time without seeing anyone and almost fell asleep. Then, suddenly, someoneshot an arm around her waist from behind, holding her in place. Cuilan sawa plum-coloredworkout shirt swaying in front of her eyes. She struggled for herlife, shouting “Help!” At this moment she woke up.She almost cancelled her plan to go to the spa because of this bizarre dream,but, after delaying until nine, she went anyway.There weren’t many customers on the women’s side of the hot spring pool,just three women who lay on their backs like corpses floating on the surface ofthe water. For a moment Cuilan thought one of them actually was a corpse. Thewoman lay motionless, her stomach distended, protruding. Cuilan kept fromscreaming with difficulty. Before long, though, she heard their loud voices, andrealized all three women knew each other. Cuilan felt relieved. She sat down andleaned against the side of the pool, half-closingher eyes in enjoyment. The poolwas well-designed,with running water, a thick layer of fine sand spread at thebottom, and beautiful scholartrees planted beside it.Cuilan’s whole body relaxed as she listened to the women. At first she didn’tunderstand, then, gradually, she made out the main features of their conversation.They were talking about a prostitute who was leaving to get married. Thethree women worked at a cotton mill where they did heavy labor. They envied theyoung woman, who had worked at the same factory before becoming a prostitute,then spent only four years at the spa before retiring. They had heard that agroup of men were helping her buy real estate in an apartment complex.Cuilan fell asleep listening to them talk. All of a sudden she was startled awakeby the two syllables Wei Bo. Raising her eyes, she saw the three women just gettingout of the water and moving toward the changing room. Cuilan wondered,Could they be talking about Wei Bo? Had Wei Bo helped the young woman fromthe cotton mill buy an apartment? Was Wei Bo capable of this? She vaguely rememberedhearing him say he had another job, one that was profitable. At thetime she’d thought he was trying to show off and nothing more. “Gray income”was everywhere now. Cuilan didn’t need Wei Bo’s money. There was no financialrelationship between them.A feeling of dejection overcame her. She was here to rest, but instead sheheard news about Wei Bo. Last night’s strange dream had been the same. It wasas though the entire spa belonged to him. More people began to fill the pool. Cuilangloomily climbed onto the edge.When she reached the main entrance she carefully studied the door, trying toremember her dream. She looked it up and down, feeling that this was not thedoor in the dream. Someone spoke behind her.“I am certain the emotion is real. None of the others believe in this kind ofthing.”It was one of the women from the cotton mill, the one who’d lain in the poolwith her stomach swelling like a drum.Cuilan smiled at her, as if they knew each other.“My name is Long Sixiang. I’ve seen you here a few times, you’re Niu Cuilan.Do you come here looking for sympathy, like those of us who work at the mill?My two friends and I have been coming here a lot recently. We want to work inthe ‘special services,’ but everyone thinks we’re too old. We all know Wei Bo, hegets people to like him. We’ve heard him talk about you.”“What did he say about me?”“He says you’re a virtuous woman. My friends and I are the fair maidentype, too, but we don’t want to be. We realized too late that we’d rather be fallenwomen. Now no one will take us on because we’re old.”“I want to be fallen, too!” The words escaped Cuilan’s lips. “It’s too bad, I’malso too old.”“I know what you mean. All the women Wei Bo falls for are like this. He insiststhat you’re virtuous, but I never believe what he says. Besides, would a virtuouswoman come to a place like this?”Long Sixiang, whose name Sixiang meant “homesick,” rolled her eyes as shespoke, as if she were trying to suppress some repulsive memory. Cuilan didn’tthink she was very attractive, but had to admit that the talkative woman’s way ofspeaking made her somehow charming.“So you and Wei Bo have an arrangement, too?” Cuilan asked, in a jokingmanner.“No,” Long Sixiang shook her head sadly. “I want to, but he only thinks of MissSi. An old cow prefers young seedlings. I heard he’s gone into debt for her.”They walked a way together and then parted. Cuilan found in Long Sixianga woman much to her own taste. She planned to stay in contact with her if shecould.Returning home, Cuilan became increasingly confused. Why had Wei Bo’sghost been troubling her for the past two days? Hadn’t she accepted what hadhappened to their relationship? A worker at a soap factory had been involvedwith her, for a time, but now their affinity was at an end, leaving each to seekhis or her own pleasure. That was just how it was. She hadn’t even thought ofWei Bo before going to the hot springs. She was only anxious about seeing Mr.You from the antiques shop there. It was clear, then, that Wei Bo was no longerin her heart. Yet he would not let her be, whether in dreams or broad daylight.From what Long Sixiang had said, Wei Bo was popular with women and must beskilled in dealing with them.When Cuilan was newly widowed a number of men pursued her. She thoughtof herself as selfish for not wanting to sacrifice anything for these men, so sheremained unmarried. Living alone for so long, even if she was not entirely freeto do whatever she wanted, had not done her any harm. Wei Bo was a little betterthan other men, of course, but not to the extent that she wanted to hang herselfon his tree. She didn’t need to lean on anyone. What was the matter withthe women who worked at the cotton mill? They all wanted to be prostitutes,and they all liked Wei Bo. It seemed Wei Bo was no ordinary person. Cuilan’sthoughts wound back and forth, always revolving around him.With these thoughts heavy on her mind, she ate dinner, washed the dishes,and saw that it was already dark outside. A few children ran back and forth acrossthe window of her apartment. The vendors selling wontons in the market criedtheir wares. The streetlights in front of the dormitory where she lived began toturn on; a group of people gathered in their dim light. They sat there every day,although they never played mahjong or chatted with each other. Over the yearsCuilan had thought that they came outside to sit at the side of the road becausethey felt lonely staying at home. They faced Cuilan’s window. She had neverminded before, treating them like so many wooden posts. Today, for some reason,she did not want them to see her, so she closed the window and went to sitin the bedroom at the back.There was nothing to do in the bedroom, after she sorted her purse, but it wastoo early to go to sleep. Her gaze was drawn to the picture of a beautiful womanon the wall, a close-upof a film actress she liked. She had sensed the woman onthe wall watching her, even turning her face toward her. Yet when she looked atthe photograph directly, this was not the case.When Cuilan was almost asleep she was still thinking, Did Mr. You knowevery detail of her life?Wei Bo had not stolen away to Cuilan’s place for some time. He happened tomeet one of her ex-boyfriendsat a party. The boyfriend somehow knew Wei Bo’ssecret, coming right up to him and talking about Cuilan. He said she was “theepitome of evil and extremely violent.” She was a woman who opened her eyeswhen she saw money. He warned Wei Bo that it would be dangerous to continuethe relationship. Wei Bo was shocked and refused to believe him. Then Cuilan’sex-boyfriendpulled out a dirty, wrinkled letter and showed it to him. Thehandwriting on the paper belonged to Cuilan. She ordered this man to transfer, yuan to her bank account, to serve as “a fee for the loss of my youth.”Menacing threats followed.Wei Bo read the letter through and studied it over once again. There could beno mistake, Cuilan had written it. His heart contracted. He dripped with coldsweat.“Is this why you broke things off with her?” he asked.“No, I didn’t want to break up with her. I sent her the money, intending tocontinue the relationship. What did she do? She sent criminals who threatenedto kill me.”Wei Bo discovered that as the man told his story his expression grew distracted, and he even smiled sweetly from time to time. He didn’t seem embarrassedat all. Wei Bo suspected that he was mentally ill. He suddenly grabbedboth of Wei Bo’s hands and said eagerly, “Do you think there’s still hope for me?You can judge objectively. Tell me, do I still have hope? I have another ,yuan ready, and I’ll send it to her if there’s any hope.”The man’s hands felt ice-coldand sticky. Wei Bo tried to withdraw his handsbut couldn’t free them. He, too, became nervy. He answered vaguely, “I don’tknow. How would I know? You’ll know best. A distant relative of mine, a nephew,murdered someone because he was in love. It was meaningless. Don’t you thinkso? Being in love is wonderful. How many times in a person’s life can such abeautiful thing happen? Hmm?”His answer disappointed Cuilan’s ex-boyfriend.He indignantly let go of WeiBo’s hands.The party was at a coworker’s home, and no one noticed their conversationamong the general noise. Wei Bo wanted to move to another seat, so he stood upand went to the bathroom. When he came back the ex-boyfriendwas nowhere tobe seen. Wei Bo sighed with relief and sat back down. When he raised his headhe saw an uninvited guest push open the door of the room. It was Mr. You fromthe antiques shop. Wei Bo recognized him, although they didn’t know each otherwell. Mr. You walked straight up to Wei Bo and sat down at his side. As soon ashe opened his mouth Wei Bo was startled, because he spoke as if he were a closefriend.“Love has been an unlucky pursuit recently. There’s a feeling of having reachedthe ends of the earth. I believe you know this from experience. Ah, women, theworld is endlessly happy because of them. Don’t you think so?”The fragrance wafting from Mr. You’s body made Wei Bo lightheaded.“Where are the women? I can never find them! Look how many enchantingladies there are in this room, but when the party ends, they vanish. Sometimes Iwake up in the middle of the night and look out the window. From where I live onthe third floor I can see an army of women passing by, marching from the west tothe east. Each of them walks in an alluring way. Ms. Niu Cuilan is one of them.”Mr. You began to laugh, showing his beastly white teeth. Wei Bo creased hisbrow in disgust.He couldn’t stand this freakish, dandified man anymore. He said goodbye tothe host. As he stood up to leave Mr. You hung his head and looked completelydejected.Wei Bo broke up with Cuilan after this party. Sometimes he felt the way hehad chosen to break things off was extremely tactful. Sometimes he thoughthe had behaved despicably. In either case there was one thing Wei Bo could notfigure out: was he really separated from her or not? He had a vague feeling thatthe question was not so simple; Cuilan was not the sort of woman he could breakup with just because he felt like it. Wei Bo had known this from their first meeting,and it was the reason he was trying to break up with her. He tried to examinehis own heart. Wei Bo believed himself to be unusual. He always liked to play atthis game of examination.Wei Bo’s relationship with his wife was a type of superficial indifference, akind of gentlemen’s agreement in which each side had secrets, although bothwere careful to keep the family peace. Their two sons lived away from home, sothe family only reunited when they brought their wives and children to visit onholidays. In Wei Bo’s view, his wife also needed to be examined. He was not examiningher, naturally, but rather his own views about her. She was a middleschool teacher, well-educated,who spoke indirectly enough to make her meaningimpossible to follow. They had fallen in love at first sight at a very young ageand tied the knot, with a passion that lasted seven or eight years. Later on theirrelationship cooled by degrees, as they grew estranged, probably because theyknew each other too well.Wei Bo discovered, although he was not sure when exactly, that he was popularwith women. In any group of women, from the young to the mature, a fewwould respond to him. Wei Bo was sensitive and circumspect, so he eventuallybegan having affairs with them. His conduct was well-concealedand had neverbeen exposed so far.Niu Cuilan was his fourth lover, give or take. She excited him, although he wasnot sure what specifically he liked about her, when he thought about it. He hadgone to the hot springs that day to see his young mistress and discovered newprey instead. He was caught unawares—it made his head spin. What happenedafterward proved that the new romance was extraordinary, in that he abandonedhis younger lover to the back of his mind for an entire month. While he was involvedwith Cuilan, he would say to himself, Oh, Wei Bo, can’t you stop your headfrom spinning? Your life is already a mess! Without knowing why, he kept tryingto escape and go back to his old way of life.Wei Bo sat at home balancing his accounts (he did the accounting for bothjobs at once). He worked away for a while, then stopped and stared into space fora while, recalling his relationship with Cuilan and its shameful end. He was theone who had behaved shamefully; his baseness was original. Her ex-boyfriendhad confused him, of course, but he was not why Wei Bo decided to break thingsoff with Cuilan. Wei Bo was not gullible enough to think he understood the relationshipbetween that man and Cuilan. Had he wanted to separate from Cuilanbecause they knew each other too well (the same as with his wife)? That was notthe whole of it. On further thought, the most likely reason was that hedonismhad gotten the better of him. Wei Bo was afraid of being hurt. Once he had actuallyfainted when he cut his arm. He was a coward, soft at heart, apt to be spoiledby the female sex.When Wei Bo finally finished his accounts night was falling. He reheated leftoversfrom lunch, ate them, and cleaned the kitchen. He saw a silhouette lookingin at the window.“Who is it?” Wei Bo asked, lowering his voice.“It’s me, Mr. You from the antiques shop. Quick, open the door. It’s urgent!”Mr. You came in with a flustered expression, pulled over a chair, and sat downwithout waiting for an invitation.“Your wife isn’t home?”“She’s not here. What is it?” Wei Bo felt his heart pounding.“Wei Bo, are you still in a relationship with Ms. Niu Cuilan? I know you don’twant to answer. I need to tell you that Cuilan is working as a prostitute at thespa. A good friend of hers, my lover, told me personally. Cuilan said she wantedto learn sex techniques there.”Wei Bo saw him show his beastly white teeth and felt involuntary disgust.“My wife will be home soon,” he said.Mr. You glared at Wei Bo and walked to the door, then turned back andscreamed, “The world is in chaos! The world is in chaos! Women are vanishingoff the face of the earth! When you go outside at night all you can see are blackcrows!”He left. The room was as quiet as if he had never been there.Wei Bo sank into deep thought. Who was this Mr. You? Why was Mr. You sinkinghis teeth into him? Wei Bo had to admit that Mr. You had brought him shatteringnews. Of course, he could have been lying. One thing was clear: Mr. Youknew about Wei Bo and Cuilan’s affair, was keeping an eye on him, and wouldnot let go. Was he another of Cuilan’s lovers?Wei Bo had seen this man just yesterday. He was on his way home after workand not far from the factory entrance when he saw a sturdy middle-agedwomanknock a man to the ground and trample him. Then the woman left. Wei Bowalked over to look at the man, who turned out to be Mr. You. Mr. You picked uphis broken glasses from the ground, looked right and left, then slowly, trembling,put them on and got to his feet. He obviously couldn’t have recognized Wei Bothrough the shattered lenses. He peered nervously around and clapped the dirtfrom his jacket and trousers before sneaking into a nearby haircutter’s. Wei Bo,curious, hid outside the door to eavesdrop. He heard Mr. You and the owner flirtinginside, both of them laughing loudly.As Wei Bo recalled the incident, the shadow over his heart grew thicker. Couldsomething significant be taking place in secret, without him knowing? Since hehad been left in the dark, if he did nothing, wasn’t that the same as if nothinghad happened? Should he care about what might be happening in secret, even ifit was directly related to him? Wei Bo, lost in the shadows, did not know what todo. He went outside to get some air.The living quarters of the soap factory were old-fashionedsingle-storybuildingsin long rows, with an enormous scholartree at each family’s entrance, anda stone table and stone benches underneath the tree. Wei Bo was fond of thestructure of these buildings. He strolled beneath the scholartrees with his handsclasped behind his back, the cordial summer breeze adding a slightly sentimentalair that made him think all at once of his lover Cuilan. Had she really left her joband gone to work at the hot springs as a prostitute? Wasn’t it a little too late for herto make this decision? Wei Bo knew that none of Cuilan’s decisions was relatedto him directly. He understood her too well. He didn’t think there was anythingwrong with being a whore, but this was Cuilan, not anyone else. The fact (supposingit was a fact) perplexed him. The Cuilan he remembered seemed to have manyfaces. He didn’t understand her well enough, maybe even less than Mr. You did.Once, when he and Cuilan had woken up in the middle of the night, he’dexperienced something unusual. He got out of bed and went to get a drink,pouring hot water from the thermos in the dining room, and then sitting as hewaited for the water to cool before drinking it. He suddenly heard a man’s voicecoming from the shadows in a corner of the room, a voice that seemed ambiguous,almost like a dialect. Wei Bo stood and went over to look at the large cabinetin the corner.Sure enough, there was an elegant middle-agedman standing behind thecabinet. He made a sign with his hand, motioning to Wei Bo not to be alarmed.“I’m her friend,” he said quietly. “I often sneak into her home and hide here.You might think it’s strange, but it’s something I need to do. Please don’t beangry. Cuilan is a diamond in this filthy city.”He stood on tiptoe, exaggeratedly snuck to the door, opened it, and left. WeiBo stared, stunned. He suspected he was dreaming. Then he heard Cuilan in theroom with him.“That’s the Insomniac!”“How does he get in?” Wei Bo asked stupidly.“I gave him a key, of course!”“Didn’t you think I’d be angry?”“The Insomniac wanders around the city all night. Shouldn’t we show peoplelike him mercy?”A dark flame shone in Cuilan’s eyes; there were two dark circles under hereyes. Wei Bo fell silent.The two of them talked late into the night. Their conversation focused on thedistant years of childhood. The city had looked different then. In memory theywent back to the symbolic places, agreeing as they went that once the sky waslight they would revisit those old places to see how they had changed.Remembering up to this point, Wei Bo sat down on a stone bench. He saw afigure moving toward his house. He only recognized his wife as she neared him.She was very late coming home.To cast off her entanglement with Wei Bo, Cuilan used her saved vacation daysto go to the countryside. A cousin on her father’s side lived to the east, alone withhis wife, since none of their children lived nearby. Their house stood beside ahalf-acrepaddy field and a vegetable plot where they raised chickens and duckswhile passing quiet days.Cuilan stepped off the long-distancebus and walked along the cobblestonepath. She had to go about three kilometers on foot to reach her cousin’s house.This place was also Cuilan’s ancestral home, which she had visited twice before.It was very dear to her, even though her cousin was the only family there now.Yet, without knowing why, she found the landscape before her eyes to be unfamiliar.She didn’t recognize anything except for the cobblestone path. Wherehad the two low hills along the side of the road gone, for instance? The weepingwillows and ancient camphor, the deteriorating village under the trees, were nowhereto be seen. Along both sides of the road, uncultivated land and wild grassfilled the view. At one point the gigantic forms of two starving dogs appeared,tearing straight toward her, then, jerking abruptly around when they reachedher, they ran until they were out of sight. She was so frightened she broke intoa cold sweat. She vaguely sensed, without any reason to, that her cousin and hiswife were no longer on this earth, and that something strange would happen toher on this journey.When she finally saw the small, familiar mudbrick building with the half-collapsedwall, she was exhausted. By her own calculation, she had walked atleast five kilometers. An oddly shaped camphor tree shrouded the house like anevil dragon. Cuilan finally had a sense of familiarity.“Niu Yiqing! Niu Yiqing!” she shouted, ignoring everything else.First she heard the old-fashionedwooden door opening, then after a pauseher cousin and his wife slowly emerged from the house and stood under thelow eaves. Cuilan thought they looked unusually small, both black as coal, theirfeatures indistinct. She could not see them clearly. She speculated that the evildragon-likecamphor might have absorbed the vitality from their bodies. Sheraised her head and saw that against the sky the leaves of the tall tree were actuallythe color of black ink, with a metallic gleam.“Come in, come in and sit down.” Her cousin-in-law’svoice sounded like acicada.Of the tile-roofedhouse’s five original rooms, two had caved in, with threeremaining intact. One served as the dining room, and two as bedrooms. All ofthe rooms were small and dark. Her cousin’s wife limped away to busy herself inthe kitchen at the back. Her leg had been crushed when a production team wasbuilding the reservoir. Cuilan’s cousin sat silently smoking his tobacco, as if hehad already forgotten Cuilan. She eyed the familiar dining room. It looked thesame as before, but she felt something had changed. She mulled briefly, thenremembered that, the last time she had been here, a large framed picture thatwas supposed to be of her cousin’s deceased father had hung on the wall. Cuilanthought that the elderly man looked like her. Now the wall was bare.“Oh, Yiqing, you’ve managed your life well,” she could not help saying.Before her cousin had time to answer, his wife carried poached eggs to thetable. Cuilan glanced over and saw that there were four eggs. Warm memoriesmade her nostalgic, and she wept as she ate. When she finished eating, she wipedher tears with tissues she had brought, turned to her cousin, and asked him,“Why haven’t you retired?”“It isn’t time yet,” he answered quickly. “My wishes can be fulfilled here inour hometown.”When her cousin spoke, his wife made a sound like a cicada. Cuilan wasn’tsure whether she was laughing, but could tell that she was showing her approval.She sensed how the woman’s heart brimmed with delight. Cuilan handed her agift box, which she accepted before limping to the inner room.“What do you do every day?” Cuilan asked, lowering her voice.“I analyze the composition of the soil. Every day I manipulate the earth andthe crops, and gradually I figure out the soil’s quality. I also pay attention to theatmosphere. My wife is even more enthusiastic than I am. Sometimes, insteadof sleeping, she takes a little stool outside and sits on the ridges between thefields all night.”He stopped speaking when his wife appeared.He pointed at her and asked, “Cuilan, don’t you think she looks like a cicada?She imitates a cicada every day!”Cuilan laughed cheerily, although she was inwardly startled, thinking, Lifeis so wonderful in the countryside after all! Watching the small, dark-skinnedwoman in front of her, she remembered what her cousin’s wife had looked likemany years before. She had been a plump, healthy farmer’s wife, and not shortor dark! Had the injury to her leg caused such a great change? Still, the transformationwas not all for the worse. Cuilan sensed that the woman’s body possessedan extraordinary spiritual power. There are not many people in this world whocan train their voices to sound like cicadas. Cuilan exclaimed, “The air in the cityis filthy compared to our hometown!”“But my true ideal is in the city,” her cousin quickly said.That evening they burned a large bundle of mugwort to keep away the mosquitoes.Cuilan sat in the lingering smoke as though her body were in a celestialparadise. She regretted not returning home more often. She stood on the ricethreshing floor in the moonlight, looking off into the distance. At the furthestvisible point she saw dark red fireballs tumbling, rolling back and forth, mysteriousand entrancing. She asked her cousin what they were.“It’s someone burning grass on the deserted land. He’s trying to make signals.”“Who is he signaling?”“Probably no one. People are all like this now in the countryside.”“Lovely.”“But he’s a murderer. They kill people, then they feel lonely, so they burngrass on the wilderness as a way to communicate. When I see him in the daytime,he lowers his eyes out of fear.”It was too quiet. Cuilan could not fall asleep for a long time. Finally she dozed,but was soon woken by people talking outside.“We can burn grass, too. First cut it up fine, let it dry in the sun, then light iton fire. It’s not hard. That’s the way Wei Bo does it.”Her cousin placed stronger emphasis on the two syllables of the name Wei Bo.Cuilan jumped up, since this was the first time she had heard Wei Bo’s namesince coming to the countryside. It was fantastic. How did her cousin know WeiBo? She cracked the wooden door open and saw her cousin and his wife sittingin the thick bower of the tall camphor tree, their four legs swaying. Her cousin’swife made a sound like a cicada now and then as her cousin continued, “Therewill be a south wind tomorrow afternoon. Once it blows, the entire wildernesswill be burned away. We’re not murderers, we don’t have to lower our eyes infront of other people.”Cuilan heard two muffled thuds. It was the two of them crashing down fromthe tree. They began to groan loudly. Cuilan hurried over to them.“Why pull the bench away? Why pull it away?” her cousin’s wife asked.Cuilan was startled—they must be shatterproof. She would be dead if she fellfrom such a height.She was scared to raise them. If they had broken bones, they shouldn’t bemoved. She had to make sure first.As she examined the couple, they struggled one after the other from theground to their feet. It was truly a miracle.Her cousin’s wife staggered ahead into the house. Her cousin stood in thesame place, turning to look left and right. Cuilan swept the surroundings withher eyes, discovering nothing unusual. Her cousin struck his lighter and raisedthe flame aloft. A number of seconds passed before he extinguished the lighterand put it away.“Who are you signaling?”“No one.” He started to laugh.“Does anyone come visit you here in the quiet countryside?” Cuilan drummedup the courage to ask.“Aha, you’re trying to pry into my background, aren’t you? I’m sorry, Cuilan,I will keep my secrets. Life here is full of taboos. I know you want to ask why mywife and I sit in the tree. This is why: we want to get a little further away fromthe earth’s clamor, to become calmer, so that we can make certain decisions.”“The earth’s clamor?” Cuilan asked, blinking.“Yes, you must have heard it. Isn’t that what woke you up?”“I woke up because you were talking so loudly.”“That’s only what you think. You were awake before then.”Cuilan fell silent. She reflected for a moment, then asked, “Cousin, could Icome live in the countryside? Maybe I could build another house over there.”“No, Cuilan, you couldn’t. It’s too late. Can people do whatever they want to?”As he spoke the sky was already growing light. Cuilan wondered how it couldbe daybreak when she had not slept yet. She saw her cousin squinting and staringahead, so she looked, too, and saw through the mist the red fireballs rollingalong. Was it really Wei Bo?When they went back into the house, her cousin said something disconnected,“From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs.”His wife placed a big pot of congee and two smaller plates of pickled vegetableson the table, then sat down on a stool and cried. Her husband said, “She’sreminded of her youth.” He bent over and stroked her back to console her. Shegradually grew quieter and went to sit at the dining table. Then, suddenly, shemade the cicada sound twice, so loud and clear Cuilan was startled.Breakfast took a long time because the couple kept putting down their chopsticksto go look out at the door. Cuilan went with them, but she saw nothingother than the balls of fire in the distance. Later the fireballs disappeared, too.“Outsiders are always coming here to burn the grass on the deserted land.They buy and sell the land, then there’s no sign of them again. I can understandtheir impatience.”Her cousin said this with a smile. Cuilan stared at his face, seasoned as it waswith time, thinking, He’s enchanted with his life! Then she felt ashamed.During the day the couple went to work in the field, while Cuilan sat underthe camphor tree worrying about her own problems.The countryside was so bleak and so tranquil! Maybe something was wrongwith her ears, as she could not hear the clamor of the earth her cousin mentioned.This made her ashamed. There was another thing she couldn’t figure out:there used to be a village to the east of her cousin’s house. Cuilan’s parents hadlived in the village, and Cuilan had gone there when she was younger. Ten yearsago when she visited her cousin its old houses still stood. Where had the villagegone? She planned to wait and ask her cousin. The thick maple grove besidethe tile-roofedhouses that were connected by passageways into a larger complexfloated up in her mind. She looked to the east, where there was no grove ofmaples, nor the former houses, only wasteland.An idea suddenly occurred to her: what if she and Wei Bo were to live here,like her cousin and his wife? Oh, what a pity, her cousin said it was impossible,it was too late. He must have his reasons. Besides, Wei Bo had responsibilities.What about Mr. You? In the countryside, far from the city, Cuilan’s affectionsbegan to change. She no longer found You loathsome. Maybe his slickness, hisdandyism, was an image. Everyone wears a mask. Like Cuilan herself, for instance,whom others might see as a professional whore—there was no telling.Cuilan had made no arrangements for what would happen after her death.She was only thirty-five.When she happened to think about dying, she comfortedherself by saying it was no use to be afraid. She would ask a neighbor orcolleague to send her to the crematorium and throw away the ashes of her bonesand that would be that. However, at this moment a rush of longing poured intoher heart, a yearning to die here, in the future. Why she longed for this she couldnot say. She had not anticipated this emotion. Looking out from the shadow ofthe tree into the golden sunlight all around, she thought the scene must be whatdoomsday would look like. She found it touching. She had been touched constantlyduring her stay of now a little more than a day in the countryside. Yet inordinary life she was not easily moved.Cuilan didn’t believe Wei Bo had come across her cousin by chance. She andWei Bo must truly be connected by fate. She often thought at dusk of the ancientdestiny of love. Last year when she bumped into Wei Bo at the spa was, naturally,a meeting he had planned in advance.At dusk Cuilan finished making dinner and waited for her cousin and his wifeto come back to eat. She burned mugwort inside and outside to fumigate thebuilding until it reeked. Then she continued to wait, but they did not return. Themoon had risen, and a ball of fire reappeared in the distance. This time the fireballstood there, not moving, changing from red to black, and again from blackto red, not at all like someone burning grass on the wasteland. Cuilan wondered,if it was Wei Bo, would he grace the little house with his presence this evening?She could not eat for the cares weighing on her mind, so she went outside.For kilometers around there were no people or even dogs. She could only walkin the direction of the fireball, but she was afraid of losing her way. Hadn’t shenearly gotten lost on the way here? That was in broad daylight. Anxious or not,she did not stop.After walking for a while she heard someone calling her name. Who? Not hercousin, not Wei Bo. Once she answered, the man no longer called for her. Cuilangrew scared and began to walk back. She sensed someone following her. Withoutdaring to look, she picked up her pace and flew all the way back to the darkenedhouse, where she bolted the door shut.“Cuilan, Cuilan! It’s your Fourth Uncle!” the man outside said impatiently.Cuilan looked out of the window, but saw no human figure.“I have something to tell you. Wei Bo and I sleep together every night,” saidthe ghost of the man dead for many years.“Wei Bo? What did he tell you?” Cuilan asked, her voice trembling.“Nothing important, just that he will not abandon you.”Fourth Uncle was silent after saying these words. Cuilan saw the air outsideflooded with a pale green color and a tiny flame floating along. She didn’t dare toturn on the light and panted quietly in the dark instead. Suddenly she began todoubt whether her cousin and his wife were alive. How could living persons fallfrom so high in a tree without getting hurt? Hadn’t she vaguely felt when shearrived that the couple were not of this world anymore? Was there some basis tothis? Cuilan’s body would not stop shaking, although, despite her fear, she wasinwardly excited, and yearning for a certain turn in events.Cuilan waited for a long time, but nothing happened. Suddenly her mentalprocess began expanding. She resolutely opened the front door and steppedunder the ancient camphor. She spread her arms, leaning her entire body againstthe rough bark of the trunk, her mind at ease.In the distance tiny silhouettes appeared, like Lilliputians in the moonlight. Itwas her cousin, his wife, and another man. Cuilan’s heart pounded wildly. Couldhe be Wei Bo?They slowly walked closer. Unfortunately it was not Wei Bo, but an older manin ragged clothing.“You’re late coming back!” Cuilan said reprovingly.“A little late. This is our family’s benefactor. He ran into some trouble, so wehelped him take care of the problem, and now everything’s fine. Do you recognizehim, Cuilan?” her cousin said.Cuilan looked at the man’s face, seeing in the dim light the eyes gleaminggreen like a cat’s. She burst out, “Oh, are you Fourth Uncle?”“No, girl, I’m not a member of your family. I’m a tinker,” he answered quickly.They all went into the house together, but the stranger soon went out again.Cuilan asked her cousin where the man was going. Her cousin said up into thetree.“He carries sadness in his heart. Sitting in the camphor tree lessens the pain.”Her second night in the countryside Cuilan fell asleep like the dead, beforeshe was once again awakened by noises. It was the tinker talking loudly with awoman in what sounded like a romantic tone. Cuilan got up because she couldn’tgo back to sleep. Nor could she resist pushing the wooden door slightly open tolook around outside. She was badly frightened by the spectacle she saw. The manand woman held knives glittering like snow in their hands and appeared to beabout to duel. Cuilan hurriedly shut the door, retreated, and quietly called hercousin, “Yiqing! Yiqing!”Her cousin coughed in the inner room. After a while he finally, slowly asked,“What is it, Cuilan?”He emerged without turning on the light. In the dark he asked Cuilan whethershe wanted to get a better view of the scene outside. As he was speaking heopened the wooden door.The man and woman had turned into silver statues that stood in front ofthe building, in the same posture, still holding the knives in their hands. Theirbodies flickered with snow-whiteflashes of electricity.“This is what they became in the end,” her cousin said with disappointmentand shut the door.“Who is he really?”“He really used to be a tinker. Then he went missing. Everyone said he ranaway into the mountains with a woman. Many years later my wife and I cameacross him in broad daylight. He said he’d escaped from the mountains.” Hercousin glanced through the crack in the door, then turned and said to Cuilan,“Ha! One after another up the tree! Like two monkeys! Ha ha!”He rubbed his hands in amusement. Then he bolted the door.“Why not invite them in?” Cuilan asked, not understanding.“It’s easy to say invite them in! Do you know how high their temperaturesare? He’d be manageable on his own, but once the woman comes they turn intobranding irons! Let them stay up in the tree. The tree cannot die.”In the rear room her cousin-in-lawmade the sad, shrill sound of the cicada.The hairs on Cuilan’s body stood on end.Her cousin returned to the inner room. His wife finally grew peaceful.“Cuilan, it’s time to rest now. You have to go back home tomorrow,” her cousinsaid loudly.“Why are you driving me away?”“We’re not driving you away. It’s because Wei Bo will be at your home tomorrow.”“Where did you see Wei Bo?”“At Fourth Uncle’s. Don’t ask questions, it’s time to rest now. Do you want WeiBo to go there for nothing? He really is a good person.”Everything became peaceful, and Cuilan felt the urge to sleep. Yet she strainedher ears as hard as she could trying to hear the two people in the tree. Theirvoices were audible, but for all that she couldn’t tell what they were saying, becausethe old camphor tree echoed their sound with a metallic drone, weng weng.To Cuilan it sounded like a plane circling overhead. Before entering a dream, shethought, a little enviously, They must be so happy. In her dream, she heard thecouple outside referring to her as “the orphan.” When she heard these two syllables,or—phan, her tears rolled down in waves, soaking the pillow. Her dreamscapewas passionate, with two silvery forms always floating around her. Shesaw milkvetch all around, honeybees everywhere, to her right the houses of thedisappearing village, and the maple leaves burning like fire. Her cousin and hiswife stood at the door of the old house looking like two dwarves.When Cuilan woke up her cousin’s wife had already put breakfast on the table.They both seemed to be in lively spirits. Cuilan searched outside for a while, butthe things that happened the night before had left no trace. Her cousin cameoutside, too, and said, “Our daytime and nighttime are two completely differentdays. If you always lived here and never left you’d be able to sense this. It’s toobad you won’t have the chance.”After breakfast Cuilan left. Her cousin and his wife stood under the camphortree following her departure with their eyes.When Cuilan walked beyond the paddy field and turned to look back, shediscovered that the house and camphor tree had both vanished from the earth.The cobblestone path underfoot was comforting. She reflected that the tree withits metallic leaves reaching to the sky, the mugwort’s thick fragrance, the silver-whitehuman statues, and the tumbling balls of fire could never be forgotten.A person fortunate enough to have a hometown like this one didn’t need to beafraid of losing the way.Cuilan returned. The next day Wei Bo really did come to her home.She was cleaning at the time, straddling the windowsill to wipe the glass witha rag. Her body filled with energy as she smelled the fresh, clean air spreadingthrough the rooms. Wei Bo entered without greeting her. He came in, picked upthe mop, and started cleaning the floor.“Did you go to my family’s home to burn grass on the deserted land?” Cuilanasked him in a whisper.“Uh-huh.”“Then you’ve known my cousin for a long time?”“Your hometown is beautiful.”“Why did you come back here?”“I didn’t come on purpose. The city is so cramped, where else could I go?”They made potatoes with beef and ate a good meal.Cuilan asked Wei Bo whether he had met her Fourth Uncle.“He has no home of his own, but he has one unique skill: digging holes in theground. He carries the tools on his back wherever he wanders. Once the site ischosen, whether in the wasteland or on a rock, he only needs two hours to makea place to hide.”“Did you stay in a hole with him?”“Yes. We could hear each other’s breathing. Your Fourth Uncle brings peoplepeace. There are many people like him in your family.”Wei Bo talked about some other things. As he spoke his eyes narrowed, thenhe bent over the dining table and began to snore. Cuilan said to herself, Thesepast few days must have been such a strain on him!She moved him with some effort into her bed. She looked at her lover, in anexcited but also gloomy mood. She thought of the enormous ghastly camphortree. Was it secretly sheltering her? What sort of protection was this?When Wei Bo woke up they had great sex, much better than the first time.Even so, Cuilan seemed to be almost in a trance. Mr. You from the antiques shop,that slick, overdressed man, appeared before her eyes. She wondered, What wasthe relationship between Mr. You and Wei Bo? Were they as close as brothers?She snickered.“Are you thinking of another lover?” Wei Bo asked, watching her attentively.“No. There’s someone pursuing me, but just looking at him makes me sick.”“There’s nothing wrong with that. All of us have things about us that makeother people sick.”It was already after midnight, but Wei Bo put on his clothes and said heneeded to go home. Cuilan looked at him, wanting to say something that she didnot say. What came out was something she never expected to say.“Oh, Wei Bo, how did I come across you in such a remote place? I smokedout the mosquitoes with bundles of mugwort, until the fumes smoked you out.Sometimes I think that place must not be my hometown, because I don’t understandanything about it. When I see you, you float on the horizon, pushing theflaming red wheel. You must have suffered?”She could not continue; she stared straight ahead.“I didn’t suffer. Could I suffer when you were there? The wheel was scorchingand hard to push, but the air in the countryside stimulates my every pore! Thenthere are the caves, with advantages you could never imagine!”He quietly shut the door and left.Cuilan heard the shout coming from her own mouth, “Mr. You! Mr. You!”Once she came to her senses she was frightened. She tried her best to visualizeWei Bo and Fourth Uncle hiding in the caves. What sort of caves were they?The next time she would not be content unless she found them and saw whatthey were actually like. Why hadn’t she thought of speaking face-to-facewith herFourth Uncle when he called to her from the window?After returning from the countryside, Cuilan went to the hot springs on herdays off out of boredom.Business at the spa was light, especially in the women’s baths, where shesoaked alone as a few multicolored, narrow-bodiedfish moved through thewater, producing a bizarre hallucination, as though she were in some foreignland. In her drowsy state she heard someone calling her, furtively, “Cuilan! Cuilan!How could you forget me . . .”She opened her eyes with an effort and stood, sweeping her eyes in a circle.The whole bathing area was like a desolate, abandoned woman. She heard thefaint sound of weeping, a young woman weeping, sometimes stopping, sometimescontinuing.“Who’s playing tricks?” she yelled spitefully.Who was the ghost? No one. She went to the changing room in a rage.By the time she came out of the changing room, she still had not seen a singleperson. She finally heard the sound of laughter when she went to the receptiondesk in the lobby. Oh, it was Long Sixiang and her friend! The women wereheavily made-up,aggressively perfumed, and had obviously left their manuallabor at the cotton mill to become whores. Cuilan thought the women were alittle old to be prostitutes, but their confidence was out of all proportion. Theywere flirting with a man who stood with his back to Cuilan. Then he turnedaround, and it was Mr. You.“Long Sixiang is my lover,” he told Cuilan in an oily voice. “Not a one- or two-yearaffair—we’ve known each other more than twenty years. The job she’s doingnow brings out my old affection for her.”He and Long Sixiang fell together onto the long sofa with their arms aroundeach other’s shoulders. The second woman, not wanting to be left out, squeezedonto the sofa, and Mr. You embraced one with each arm.Cuilan walked quickly toward the exit, taking advantage of the disturbance.She heard Mr. You scream frantically behind her, “Where are you going, Ms. NiuCuilan? I have something to say to you!”He chased Cuilan and caught up with her at the door. Seeing his purple,swollen face and agitated look, she said, “How strange. What do you want to talkto me for?”“It’s something important,” he said, a little embarrassed, and lowered hishead.Cuilan caught the smell of perfume and wrinkled her brow. As if guided bya spirit she said, “In that case, let’s go to the teahouse across the street and sitdown for a bit.”“Oh, thank you!”They sat down in the small tearoom. Mr. You appeared uneasy, craning hisneck to look around, and heaving sighs. Cuilan, impatient, demanded, “Do youactually have something to say? If not, then I’m leaving!”Mr. You seemed to be startled from a dream and motioned with a hand forher to sit back down.“It will take a long time to explain, Ms. Niu Cuilan! Many years ago I made anarrangement with your parents. You don’t know about our agreement, but somepeople in your hometown do. After your parents passed away I couldn’t bringit up without seeming unkind. But you’re a single woman now. There would benothing improper if I were to court you, would there?”“Go ahead and try!” Cuilan sputtered.“Wait, I wasn’t saying I want to make demands. What I meant was, you havethat hometown in your background, and that’s why I’m interested in you.”“Please, say something about my hometown.”“Oh, it’s hard to tell everything at once. What can I say? I’ve been to manyout-of-the-wayplaces without seeing a village transform so quickly . . . It’s anordinary little farmhouse, of course, with enormous water vats and the stonemortar for crushing rice in the outer room, and grounds outside the building fordrying rice in the sun. If you go there once, you lose the measure of yourself ineveryday life.”Cuilan felt, as Mr. You began to speak about her hometown, that his oily,dandyish look was disappearing. He became more like a civilized man whosemind was disturbed. One of Cuilan’s former lovers had been highly educated,too, but he was not disturbed in the way Mr. You was. Cuilan found one thinghard to understand: how could her parents think she and Mr. You were a match?Cuilan believed herself to be a plain, unaffected, practical person, as were herparents. They were as far in temperament from Mr. You as the distance betweenthe sky and the ground. The affairs of the world are hard to understand. It wasthis very man, flighty as he was, who took an interest in her rustic, dreary hometown.“My hometown seems to have made an impression on you,” Cuilan said, teasinghim.Mr. You looked at her, his face suddenly overcast. Then he sat there not sayinga word, from time to time with a savage expression, as if he had changed into adifferent man.They parted unpleasantly.Cuilan found this incident both strange and frightening. She made up hermind to avoid Mr. You when she saw him. He might be deranged. The thoughtalso occurred to her, Long Sixiang is apparently his lover, but what do they havein common? Then there were her parents, who would never have engaged herto a man who was mentally ill. Reviewing these questions, Cuilan felt that shemight be worrying too much.Now she had doubts about going to the hot springs. She might run into peoplelike Mr. You or Long Sixiang and get entangled in a bad way. Still, she was an unmarriedwoman, with no way to pass the time. Dull days arrived. To lighten theboredom, she even learned to embroider, and her handiwork was of the highestquality. In her loneliness she suddenly felt the misery of old age approaching.Her lovers from the past came and called to her from outside, while she sat insideunmoved.One night, during a violent storm, Cuilan was listening to the sound of therain when all at once she remembered the disconnected words her cousin hadsaid: From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs. She felt hercomprehension of the sentence’s meaning in a visceral way. She believed peopleshould be able to live in this manner, whether in the countryside or in the city.She had not realized Wei Bo’s views were similar to hers. Their relationshipresumed.Cuilan asked Wei Bo, “What year were you first in contact with my family?”Wei Bo rolled his eyes back and thought for a long time before finally answering,“It’s hard to say exactly. My impression is that I’ve always known your cousinand your Fourth Uncle, but wasn’t in contact with them. Cuilan, tell me, if I’mshut away in prison someday, will you still remember me?”“Of course I’ll remember you. You won’t be sent to prison, will you?”“You’re wrong. I think I’ve broken the law.”Cuilan did not question Wei Bo. She thought she should not. She was nolonger the Cuilan she had been.Before long Wei Bo did go to prison.That day he and Cuilan were sitting in the park when the police suddenly arrived.Wei Bo continued speaking with her as he stood and walked toward them.He put out both hands to let them handcuff him.“What are you doing? Why?” Cuilan raved, losing control of her emotions.“He belongs to a criminal organization,” a young policeman said.Then they took Wei Bo away. He looked cheerful and optimistic, as thoughputting down a stone that had weighed on his mind.Cuilan sobbed when she got home. She was once again alone. Before this disaster,she had planned on a long-termrelationship with Wei Bo. She could visithim in prison sometimes, of course. She sensed that her partner had an unfathomablequality, something she could not articulate. Something to do with thesmell of wormwood?“Oh, Wei Bo,” she thought, “why be with me, if you wanted to join criminals?Why waste time with me when I can’t satisfy you?”Her eyes hazy with tears, she began, to her surprise, to feel her crying wasartificial, and the tears stopped.As soon as she stopped crying, she thought of Mr. You. Which part of her wasthat slick, overdressed man attracted to? In her former life, she had disliked menlike him and felt nauseated at the sight of them. Remembering Mr. You now, shefelt curious and titillated. Apparently her nature had changed since her returnfrom the countryside.She wanted to provoke Mr. You, to make him spit out the secrets hidden inhis heart. She wanted to clarify things: did Mr. You have any connection to herdeceased parents? If so, why had she never met him before? If not, how was heable to describe her parents and her hometown so vividly?Cuilan thought up to this point, sat down, and dialed Long Sixiang’s cellphone.“Long Sixiang, where are you?” she asked.“Where else would I be? With a client, someone you know.”“Is it Mr. You?”“Yes, I’ll have him come to the phone.”“Ms. Cuilan, control your grief.” She heard Mr. You’s sticky voice. “After all,there are so many alternatives in life. Have you considered me, for example?”“I was just considering you.”“Good, sparks may be struck between us.”Cuilan pondered Mr. You’s words for a long time after she hung up the phone.He talked like her father. Cuilan had always believed that she had a dark history,and now this man had emerged out of this secret side of her history. An unclassifiableman.Cuilan’s father had been a silent man. Her impression of her father was alwaysvague, and she couldn’t peer into his mind. Her relationship with her father wassometimes good and sometimes bad. Yet even at the times when it was closest,Cuilan continued to feel that she and her father both kept themselves wrappedup tightly, doing all they could to show the other an image. She realized thiswhen she was very young, thinking then that it might be because she and herfather were both unhappy with themselves and wanted to be a different kind ofperson. As she got older, though, she came to look at it from another perspective.Her current view was that people created images to fool other people becausethe truth was too frightening, too difficult for them to accept. Apparently she andher father had a similar way of thinking, a similar temperament. Cuilan inferredfrom this that the impression she made on other people was probably vague, too.For example, the woman who was the head of Cuilan’s workshop often stood offto the side and stared at her for a long time, without saying a word. Cuilan hadnever heard any evaluation of her work from her supervisor. Was no evaluationher evaluation? Cuilan didn’t care what other people thought of her, but this kindof vagueness made her feel a little nervous. What if someday a poisonous snakeslithered out from a dark thicket?She thought once more of her father. What if Mr. You were the poisonoussnake? Hadn’t her father made an arrangement with him? The arrangement wasitself ridiculous, because her father knew on a fundamental level that he couldn’tdictate Cuilan’s life. She had not sought his consent for her eventual marriage.The day she announced her news, her father hadn’t said anything. Of course, hewasn’t fond of talking.She approved of Long Sixiang’s carefree lifestyle as a woman who never quitwhat she started and concealed nothing, unlike Cuilan. Could this part of LongSixiang’s nature be what attracted Mr. You? At this thought, she decided that Youdid have a certain elite quality. Ha ha, as soon as Wei Bo went to prison, had herheart altered?Two weeks later Cuilan went to visit Wei Bo at the detention center on theoutskirts of the city.The detention center’s management was very kind. An older man had herwait in the reception room. He said to her, “How old are you? Thirty-five?Whata pity. The earlier you break things off with him the better. He’s incurable, andhas been for a long time. How many children do you have? None? Then cut himoff right away!”He walked away indignant.The reception room was empty, with a narrow bed placed in the precise center,but no chairs or tables. The white cover and quilt spread on the bed were untidy,as though someone had just slept there. Not wanting to sit on the bed, Cuilanstood rigidly, despite her inner agitation.After a short while Wei Bo entered. His evasive manner reminded Cuilan ofthe first time she saw him at the spa. Wei Bo embraced Cuilan, falling with heronto the bed, madly groping at her body. She couldn’t stand this and violentlypushed him away, shouting, “You’re mad!”Wei Bo was stupefied, then a shrewd expression appeared on his face as hesaid, “I’ve thought of you day and night here on the inside. Why not seize thechance? Damn it, the old guy’s coming back.”Cuilan turned around and saw the elderly man entering with a woman behindhim. She heard the woman say sharply, “The dregs of society. I get faintjust looking. Let’s go.”So they left as soon as they entered and shut the door.“Such a good opportunity!” Wei Bo said mournfully, “Why don’t you want to?”“I feel nauseated.”“You’re too picky.”Cuilan gave Wei Bo the reading material and food that she’d brought. Wei Boflipped through the issue of Popular Cinema, his eyes shiny like a rat’s. Cuilan,sore at heart, reflected, “Prison really does change a man!” She thought this WeiBo really did seem like he belonged in a criminal organization.“When do you expect your verdict?” Cuilan asked him.“Don’t plan on it. Once you enter these doors, you have to resign yourself toliving inside. Impatience is a dead end.”“But you didn’t commit a crime, did you?”“Of course I didn’t. This is my fate.”Wei Bo lowered his eyes and wrung his hands with a slightly absentmindedlook.“Go on back, since you don’t want to do anything. It’s awkward just standinghere talking. I’m worried someone will take advantage and add to my crimes.”Wei Bo finished speaking, embraced Cuilan tightly, then pushed her away.He urged her to go. She left in confusion.As Cuilan walked along the paved road through the outskirts of the city, thecool wind cleared her head a bit. She came to a stop and turned to look back atthe detention center. Strangely, there was a tree reaching to the sky behind thetwo-storybuilding. Even its shape resembled the tree at the door of her cousin’shouse, and its thick leaves were black, too, glimmering with metallic light in thesun. This association filled her heart with dread. Her legs went limp all of a sudden,and she sank into the weeds at the side of the road. Wei Bo’s disappointedface weighed on her heart. Was she putting on an act? If he really were to losehis freedom, didn’t the way she had just treated him prove she did not love him?Her mood was much gloomier than when she had arrived. Her whole bodyfelt weak. She was still about three kilometers from the bus stop, although thewalk had not been a strain in the morning. Now everything had changed, andthe return road was harder for her. Every part of her body hurt. Her gums wereswelling. She couldn’t sit in the weeds for too long because there might be scorpionsor poisonous snakes. She dragged herself back to the road and made her wayforward with slow steps. She was on the verge of nervous collapse after walkinga short way. Suddenly she heard a creaking sound behind her. It was an old manpulling a two-wheeledcart toward her.“Want to get on? Eight kuai,” he said in a muffled voice.Cuilan thanked him repeatedly and sat in the cart.The detention center never vanished from her field of vision, nor did theenormous tree. The cart had traveled quite far and turned twice, yet she still sawthe building. It was so clear even the sheets drying in the sun could be seen distinctly.She thought something was not right. The old man kept moving forwardwithout rushing or slowing down. Cuilan smelled the sweat spreading throughhis undershirt. This man reminded her of her father. Her father had rescued herfrom danger on several occasions. Her teeth still hurt, and the cart was uncomfortable.The worst was that she kept seeing the building and that tree. Could shenot leave this magic circle? The thought made her even more confused.She was sure they hadn’t taken the wrong way, since there was only the onepaved road. Why hadn’t they reached the station after an hour and a half ? Thedetention center was no longer visible, but now the scenery along the road wasunfamiliar. There were a few low, bare hills she had not seen on the way here.She began to feel nervous.“Old man, are we almost there?”“Yes. But we’d better rest here for a bit. My niece’s house is on the right.”The old man put down the cart while he was still speaking, burrowed into thethick brush at the side of the road, and was soon out of sight. Cuilan stood onthe bed of the cart to scan ahead. There was no bus stop in view, or even the tallbuildings of the city. At the furthest point she could see, the asphalt vanishedin a haze.Cuilan jumped down from the cart and walked to the foot of one of the hills.There was not a single tree on it, only a few weeds and in the growths of wildgrass two untended graves. Cuilan’s thoughts returned to the detention center.It depressed her. The man she cared for had become a savage. Was this good orbad for her? Turning into a savage was probably best for Wei Bo. Otherwise thelong nights on the inside would be hard to endure. She didn’t know why shewasn’t anxious to go home, to the empty apartment that had lost its appeal. Shedecided to stay here and go climbing, since she didn’t need to go to work thenext day. Once Cuilan made this plan, her teeth no longer hurt, and her bodyregained strength.She climbed halfway up the hill and soon approached the graves. Only thendid she see the man sitting in the weeds on top of a grave mound. He turned hisface to her, and she recognized her Fourth Uncle.“Have you always treated the whole world as your home, Fourth Uncle?”“Not the whole world—I’m always wandering nearby.”Fourth Uncle’s voice sounded as though he were speaking into a microphone.It was ugly to see his legs, with ulcers showing below the rolled pant cuffs,propped on the grave. Cuilan thought his whole body must have rotted fromconstantly getting in and out of damp, moldy places.“Then you know about Wei Bo’s problems?”“What problems could Wei Bo have? He’s not a simple man. Go home, thesky’s getting dark. You should make long-termplans, my girl.”He got down from the grave mound and walked to the other side of the hill.Cuilan wanted to follow him, but he stopped, turned around, and glowered ather, his eyes gleaming green like a lynx’s in the dim light. Cuilan, frightened,had to go back down the slope.The sky was dark when she reached the bottom of the hill. She practicallygroped her way back to the road. She heard shrill cries coming from the directionof the detention center, scream after scream, as if the people there were beingtortured. Cuilan concentrated, listening carefully, trying to distinguish Wei Bo’svoice, but could not. Her suffering as she stood there was like a torrent throughher heart. Someone in the dark spoke to her, in a voice that was strangely familiar.“This kind of thing happens every day. Don’t take it to heart.”It turned out to be Long Sixiang. She was sitting in the two-wheeledcart Cuilanhad ridden before.“Long Sixiang, what are you doing?”“I’m this man’s mistress—I mean the owner of the cart. Don’t think he’s anordinary man just because he pulls a cart. None of the people I know are ordinary.Take this one: I suspect him of being a wealthy landowner. He spendsmoney like flowing water. I can’t deal with him by myself, Cuilan. You and I cando this job together!” Her voice grew louder and louder.Cuilan, controlling her panic, repeated, “I haven’t decided yet, I’m still thinkingit over! Even if I start this kind of work, it would be alone, not with anyoneelse.”Long Sixiang snorted and said nothing for a long time.The old man who had been pulling the cart came toward them, mutteringcurses and reeking of liquor.“You lazy whore, are you trying to rip me off ? Bah!”He stamped his feet and raised an arm to hit Long Sixiang. From her higherposition she pounced at him, holding him tightly as they fell together into thegrass alongside the road.Cuilan heard them rolling back and forth on the ground for a long time, withoutseeming to get tired. Eventually she decided to go to the bus station on foot.She was walking away when Long Sixiang called, “Stop! You can’t go!”She stopped, astonished.Long Sixiang rushed over, grabbed her arm, and said, grinding her teeth,“Trying to run? Trying to pretend you’re innocent? It’s useless!”She ordered Cuilan to sit in the cart with her.The old man pulled both of them along, guiding the cart into the weeds atthe side of the road. Cuilan couldn’t tell whether there was a path under her andwas too tired to care. She leaned against Long Sixiang’s shoulder, noticed thatshe smelled of pine, and dozed surrounded by the scent. In her hazy state sheheard Long Sixiang fiddling with a lighter as she smoked. Long Sixiang was socomposed. She must be a dependable woman, someone who was sure of herself.Halfway between dreaming and waking Cuilan suddenly realized that shehad known Long Sixiang a long time before. She had seen her many times atthe home of an acquaintance whose name she could not remember. Long Sixianghad been a pretty wife whose eyes curved like the crescent moon when shelaughed. By the time Cuilan had met her again she was a haggard mill laborerand growing old.They came alongside a long row of two-storybuildings.“These are the ‘mandarin ducks suites’ for newlyweds. Lao Yong and I reservedthe fifth suite down.”Long Sixiang embraced Cuilan as they went inside, her voice becoming moresexual.“But I don’t want to play this three-persongame,” Cuilan said in a low voice.“Damn you!” Long Sixiang shoved Cuilan to the right.She was pushed into the central room. Long Sixiang locked her inside andwent around to the rear room with Lao Yong. Cuilan heard him singing a dirtytune.At least the room had a tiny lamp. Cuilan could distinguish the items of furniturein the room, all constructed out of solid, unpolished wood that filled theair with a fresh scent. Several large cabinets with birds and flowers carved on thedoors were placed against the walls. Cuilan sat at the table listening. She heardthe man and woman going upstairs from the back of the building. They seemedextremely heavy, shaking the stairs with each step until they seemed ready to collapse.The horrible part was that she could still hear the shrill sound of weepingcoming from the direction of the detention center, even clearer now than whenshe first heard it on the road. For a moment she could even distinguish Wei Bo’svoice—slightly hoarse at first, hesitating, then erupting in an explosion of hysteria.She could not help the tears that flowed down her face.Someone outside knocked violently on the door, wailing, wa wa. It was awoman whose voice seemed familiar. Cuilan told her the door was locked fromoutside. The crying stopped, then the woman opened the door with a single kick.Cuilan was startled by her strength.It was Long Sixiang’s colleague from the mill, the other one who’d become aprostitute. In the dim light, her face appeared younger than before, so much sothat she looked enchanting. It might have been the effect of her makeup.“He used to be my client, but Long Sixiang snatched him away!”She pointed to the ceiling. Cuilan noticed that footsteps were still audibleabove, with every step seeming likely to break through the floorboards. “Whatare they doing?” she asked, panicking.“Fighting, of course! What else would they be doing? Long Sixiang won’t giveup until she’s squeezed everything out of her client! Why are you standing therelike an idiot? These armchairs are so comfortable. Come over here and talk withme.”She sat in the shadow of the large cabinets. Cuilan went over and sat down beside her. She drew one of Cuilan’s hands to her, holding it tight, her whole bodyshaking.“What’s your name?”“Jin Zhu, the Gold Pearl.”“Are you cold?”“No. I’m nervous. Something terrifying is happening upstairs. If things gobadly between men and women, it ends in murder. Our job is extremely dangerous.”“If you’re so afraid, just wash your hands of it.”“You really are stupid. It’s the risk that makes it interesting. Do you knowwhat life was like for Long Sixiang and me at the cotton mill?”Jin Zhu’s eyes had not left the ceiling for a moment as she talked. Dust wasfalling from the ceiling in the shadows to the left. They could hear the peopleabove jumping up and down. Guessing at the spectacle overhead, Cuilan felther sadness gradually changing into curiosity, and her nerves relaxed. Jin Zhugrasped her hand firmly, although she fidgeted uneasily. They were sitting in thedark, so Cuilan could not see the expression on Jin Zhu’s face.“Have you ever been on the floor of the cotton mill? It hardly needs saying—it’s like being sealed in a cement mixer! When I started vomiting blood, I toldLong Sixiang, ‘I’ll never get away, I’ll die at the mill.’ And so she and I escaped.Just think: neither of us is young, we have no skills, our health is not very good. . . What work could we do? Long Sixiang had the idea to work as prostitutes,but people didn’t want us because we were too old. She doesn’t give up, though,and she figured out a way. Then we got a footing in this business. Eventually wecame to love it. Can you imagine that? We get more energetic the more we work.We have our own network of clients, the income isn’t bad . . . But she, she doesn’tknow her place, she has great ambitions!”This last comment was full of admiration. Cuilan wondered, What was JinZhu’s actual relationship to Long Sixiang?“What do you think of my body now?” she asked Cuilan abruptly.“It’s great, nothing like the women who work at the mill.”“Good! I wanted to hear you say it. My past life is as far away from the presentas heaven is from hell!”“Is Long Sixiang trying to get money from the old man Yong?” Cuilan asked.“What? Don’t be vulgar. Would it take so much effort to get a little money?This is love, I tell you! Who could cheat the two of us? We can only be conqueredby love, the genuine article. First I fell in love with old Yong; now she’s takenhim. But I’m not jealous of her. Why? Because her passion is greater than mine.Damn it, let’s not talk about that. When I think about how I left the factory, that sea of sorrow, I’m so happy I jump for joy, even when I’m just walking downthe street. Long Sixiang and I, our backs are straight now, we know what we arecapable of, and we can also love!”Jin Zhu’s mood suddenly changed. Her gaze dropped from the ceiling. She letgo of Cuilan and held her head in both hands.“What’s the matter?” Cuilan asked.“They’ve gone.” Her voice was miserable. “They came down so quickly andwent far away . . . Is love really so short-lived?”“What makes you say that?”“Oh, the cotton, the flying cotton! Do you know how much cotton Long Sixiangand I have in our lungs? The whole twenty years . . . the loose cotton formingpellets that stick to the lobes. It was unlikely we’d live this long. I’ve alwayshoped that one of us, whether me or Sixiang, would be happy.”“Is Lao Yong really a wealthy landowner?”“To us he’s rich. We’re tricking him into falling into our hands.”Cuilan remembered Wei Bo and asked Jin Zhu whether she knew there was adetention center nearby, with many criminals locked away inside.“Of course I know. Aren’t these the Mandarin Ducks Suites? Crimes are unavoidablewhen men and women mix together. That’s why there’s a jail.”“Your powers of association are impressive.”“I’m in a pessimistic mood. I killed someone. Should I turn myself in? I cannotforget what the man I killed looked like as he struggled for life.”Cuilan patted Jin Zhu on the back and asked whether she had loved him.“Yes. I’m an idiot. Can you help me open the door?”When Cuilan opened the door, she saw a pair of sweethearts embracing eachother on their way past. From the back the man looked like Wei Bo. She went outsideto get a better look, but a gust of sand and dust blew in her face, obscuringthem from her view. Inside the room, Jin Zhu cried out in despair, “My lungs!I’m going to suffocate.”Cuilan returned to the armchair and patted her gently on the back.After Jin Zhu caught her breath, she asked Cuilan whether she heard footstepsupstairs. Cuilan listened carefully, then said she did not hear them.“Those two, they appear and disappear like ghosts, and now they’re back upstairs.This love has no future, but I hope Long Sixiang will find happiness.”“You are truly good,” Cuilan said sincerely.“Don’t talk nonsense, I’m no good. A few times I’ve almost murdered Sixiang.She and I compete in love and jealousy. I hope she will be happy, because I won’tconcede—why can’t we find happiness?”Cuilan hadn’t heard movement upstairs this whole time. She thought Jin Zhumight be hallucinating.Jin Zhu pulled her into the chair with a sweaty hand and said, “People onlycome here for one thing. You and Sixiang had your reasons, but why did I comehere? I’m a little confused, I’ve forgotten what I came here to do. I ran and ran,got into a cart, then ended up here. On the cart I felt as free as a little bird. Didn’tI escape from the cement mixer? Don’t I have my own life? Why am I so pessimistic?I know this illness will flare up again. My lungs, oh!” She let out a heart-rendingcry.“Jin Zhu, Jin Zhu, don’t be sad. You will find your own happiness.”Cuilan felt stranded after saying these words. She thought, What am I talkingall this nonsense about? Jin Zhu didn’t answer, but she stopped shouting.They were silent in the dark for a long time. Cuilan almost fell asleep leaninginto the armchair. She hazily reached out a hand toward the woman in the otherseat, where she felt an empty space, and was startled back awake.“Jin Zhu! Where are you?”“I’m outside. Quick, come here!”Cuilan felt her way outside and stood in front of the door with Jin Zhu. It wasquiet, without a single person there. The moon had already risen to the middleof the sky. Cuilan had never seen such a big moon, as large as a sink basin. Shepinched her thigh hard to make sure she wasn’t dreaming. To the right, the longrow of honeymoon suites stretched into the distance like a black dragon.“There’s a side door. We can go to the back of the building and get upstairsfrom there. We’ll make a surprise attack on Lao Yong and Sixiang.”Jin Zhu seemed enthusiastic, but Cuilan hesitated, not wanting to move fromwhere she stood. Jin Zhu kept talking. “Lao Yong is a cement merchant. He intentionallyproduces inferior cement and got rich from this scheme. One-thirdof the new buildings in our city were built with cement he supplied. I was planningto overcharge him and make a bundle, but I never thought things wouldgo wrong so quickly. Long Sixiang has been a good influence on him. Are youcoming? Otherwise I’ll go upstairs by myself.”Cuilan couldn’t resist the temptation to follow her.As they went upstairs, one in front, one behind, the narrow staircase seemedabout to collapse. Cuilan let out a scream and broke out in a cold sweat—she hadlaunched into the air. Luckily Jin Zhu caught the back of her clothing with aniron grip and pulled her back onto the staircase.“Damn it!” Jin Zhu said, gritting her teeth.The upper floor had a sloping roof and was lit with a tiny lamp. There was anarrow bed in the center of the room, reminding Cuilan of the room in the detentioncenter. The quilts were folded neatly on the bed.“They aren’t here,” Cuilan said.“Don’t be misled by surface appearances.” Jin Zhu busily opened the cabinetsand closets, using a flashlight to look under the bed.Cuilan stood baffled in the dim light, when suddenly she felt someone tuggingat her hem. Bowing her head she saw a snow-whitearm reaching out of alarge wooden trunk next to her. Oh, it was them! They were only wearing scantunderthings, the man below, the woman on top, stuck tight to each other.Jin Zhu came over and stood with Cuilan next to the wooden trunk watchingthem.“There’s nothing I can do.” Long Sixiang’s voice was plaintive. “Oh, Jin Zhu,you got away from the den of demons! If only at the beginning . . .”“Don’t talk about ‘at the beginning’! You’re like a puppet! I won’t let you beat aretreat. Why can’t we have good lives?” Jin Zhu’s voice grew calmer, then turnedto admonition: “Sixiang, have you forgotten everything we planned? You haveto struggle; I won’t let you be lazy. Look at our sister here next to you, she’s sostrong. Her lover is in jail, but she’s not discouraged. You should be ashamed.Listen to yourself, when Lao Yong is there beside you. Lao Yong! Lao Yong! Areyou listening?”“I’m listening,” the man said in a low voice.“She’s a priceless treasure,” Jin Zhu said. She pushed Cuilan along with her,and in a moment the two of them were downstairs.They stood under the enormous moon.“Why is my heart so empty?” Jin Zhu said softly.“It’s because you love Lao Yong, too,” Cuilan said.“Maybe. We should go back to the city.”Cuilan and Jin Zhu walked back into the city. It was full daylight when Jin Zhusaid she was going back to the hot springs and said goodbye to Cuilan at the sideof the road. Cuilan watched as she left, discovering Jin Zhu was full of life andshowed no sign of having stayed up through the night, even less of being ill. JinZhu had just left her when she saw Mr. You sticking his head out of the door ofa McDonald’s. She waved and Mr. You came over.“What are you doing?” Cuilan asked him, smiling.“I was waiting for you, Ms. Cuilan. Can this candidate enter the field now?”“Why don’t you go after Jin Zhu?”“Jin Zhu is pursuing someone else with so much enthusiasm that I can’t cutin now.”He was the same overdressed dandy. Even his fingernails were trimmed in awomanly curve. He invited Cuilan to the coffee shop across the street.Cuilan didn’t drink coffee, but she was starving and ate two egg sandwichesin a row. She noticed Mr. You’s lack of attention and his distracted expression.Could he be waiting for another woman?“If you have nothing important to say, I’ll say goodbye,” she said, standing.“No, don’t!” He gestured to her, in alarm, to sit down. “Please, tell me, whatis Wei Bo’s actual situation?”“Oh, don’t ask, it’s awful! I still don’t understand how people can be lockedup like that. What’s even more frightening is the place doesn’t feel solid, it’s likeyou—like you’re in a land of illusion! I think he’s already given up hope.”Cuilan’s face turned pale when she finished. Her vision blurred, and she hada sensation of drowning. She heard Mr. You’s flustered voice. “Cuilan! Cuilan!What’s wrong?”Cuilan leaned against the table for several seconds, recovering her sight bydegrees.“I’m fine,” she said weakly.“Drink a little tea,” Mr. You said solicitously.She watched his back as he poured out the tea, thinking that he looked likethe species of flat fish in the hot spring pools. There were not many soft-spokenmen like him in the city.When they finished drinking their tea, Mr. You wanted to see her back home.Cuilan thought he might want to sleep with her.He didn’t try going to bed with her, but only sat at the table looking at herblankly.“A long time ago I thought of taking walks near your home sometimes, butyou were too proud,” he said, a smile on his face that was not a smile. “We receiveda batch of Longquan celadon vases at the antiques shop. I’m afraid to stayabove the shop at night.”Cuilan couldn’t help starting to laugh.“Don’t laugh.” His face reddened. “Let me tell you, this job means dealingwith specters. People who do this kind of work are bound to have short lives.I’m hopeless. You see, I’ve never had a family, because I always think I’ll be deadsoon.”“You’re too pessimistic. You seem in good health.”“That’s only looking at the surface. I’ve lived in the underworld for a longtime, seeing life above ground as if separated from it by a layer of glass, withoutunderstanding it. But I’m not willing to give up. People like me are the typewhose ‘desires are never fulfilled, like the snake that swallowed an elephant.’ Atnight I roam through the empty, deserted ancient cities, using up all of my innerenergy. Let’s not talk about me, though, let’s talk about Wei Bo. Tell me, is he ina bad state? Could you misunderstand his situation? I’ve learned indirectly aboutWei Bo’s nature, and I don’t think he would put himself in a bad place.”“Ha ha, I’m happy to hear you say that!”“I came to your home to make you happy. You were the idol of my youth. WeiBo’s situation is normal. They won’t let him out right away, of course. Why didn’tyou take the opportunity?”“What?” Cuilan howled.She thought he was referring to when she had not slept with Wei Bo at thedetention center.“I mean that with someone like him you should dig to the root, investigate thescope of his activities, so that you can take the initiative.”“Oh, so that’s what you meant. Mr. You, let me ask you, why are you so interestedin women? Do you think they’re a different organism?”“Ha ha, that’s exactly what I think, you’ve guessed it! Women are mysteriousand unfathomable. Take Miss Long Sixiang: I’ve known her many years, but I’venever been able to guess what she intends to do. This is enchantment. In thoseyears her eyes burned. I would meet her at the entrance to the cotton mill. Therewas no talk of physical needs then. Just eating a meal together meant intimacy.”Mr. You stood and got ready to go home as he was speaking, but Cuilan hopedhe would say more about himself and Long Sixiang.“What a pity you didn’t stay on good terms with her.”“What’s there to pity? Didn’t I tell you that I always think I’ll be dead soon?”He swam outside like one of the fish in the hot springs and left.Cuilan finally felt like she had returned home. She was back at her own one-personapartment. How long had she been away? One day, one night. Yesterday’sfeelings of despair vanished, she didn’t know how, and an inner emotionalworld vastly unlike what had come before appeared. She still hadn’t made up hermind whether to risk going deeper into this world, but one thing was certain: shecould not return to her former, unconcerned life. Think of how senseless she hadbeen, believing Mr. You wanted to take advantage of her! He, and Long Sixiang,and Jin Zhu—what kind of people were they? Then there was the most criticalquestion: what kind of person was Wei Bo? What was his relationship to MissSi from the cotton mill? When Cuilan thought of this side of things, everythingwent dim before her eyes. Perhaps it was a world she would never comprehend,never grasp. Why did she have to think about things that had so little to do withher? She clenched her teeth and decided to focus only on what was in her heart.Cuilan entered a dreamland. Everything in the dream moved her, withoutreason: gray streets, gray buildings on both sides of the street, gray pedestriansand trees on the sidewalks, a flock of gray pigeons in the sky, a gray station wagondriving down the middle of the road, a girl stretching half of her body outsideof the gray car, wearing a gray hat to block the sun . . . Cuilan came to the roadthat went down the embankment along the river, where she saw Wei Bo walkingtoward her. Wei Bo asked her whether she would go with him to the soap factory.She nodded over and over, feeling lighthearted. Wei Bo pointed to the river andsaid the soap factory was underneath it. He dove into the water every day to go towork. Cuilan found this comical and laughed aloud. Then her laughter woke herand she said, “You are a superb actor!”She looked at the clock on the wall. It was midnight. There was a racket outside,a few people shouting in unison, “The Red Sailboat! The Red Sailboat! Businessis booming!” There was a café for lovers nearby called the Red Sailboat. Shehad happened to go there once or twice, and thought the place was shady becauseof the heavily tattooed men who passed through it. She stood up and went tolook out the window, but everything appeared still. No one was there. She lookedagain and saw one person standing at the mailbox. She waited patiently, eventhough the noise had stopped. All of a sudden, the man by the mailbox raiseda small rectangular box, probably a tape recorder. The noise came from insideit. He had several tattoos and was built like a pylon. Cuilan, frightened, quicklyturned off the light and retreated to the bed. She tried to return to her dream,but could no longer go back. She shut her eyes, but the din outside her windowcontinued, causing continual, bizarre associations in her mind. She decided shewould go to the café at sunrise to see what was going on there. She rememberedthe picture of the boat with red sails that covered an entire wall.Even when Cuilan tried to concentrate, she made small errors in her work.She made them several days in a row. The head of the workshop wanted to speakwith her.Cuilan sat in the office fidgeting uneasily, calculating whether she should gowork as an attendant at the hot springs after being put on a “retained post withsuspended salary.” She knew that the spa was hiring.The head of the workshop came in without a hint of reproach in her expression.On the contrary, she chatted with Cuilan seemingly at random. Cuilan wason guard, thinking there must be a hidden trap in the words of this middle-aged,but attractive, woman.“When I was younger I worked as a warehouse clerk, too. Just like you, I didn’tlike this work—a boring job. Yes, I can understand what’s upsetting you.”“What will my discipline be?”“Discipline?” she asked in reply, her eyes widening until they looked like copperbells. “Don’t misunderstand, Cuilan, we can hardly sympathize with youenough. How could we discipline you?”“But I made mistakes in my work and should receive the usual punishment.”“Who doesn’t make mistakes when she’s young? Cuilan, I know there aresome men who wish you ill, who are waiting to see you brought low, but I willmake sure they fail. When you go back, nothing should weigh on your mind.Hold your head proudly, as an upright person!”The head of the workshop massaged Cuilan’s shoulders with her fleshy hands,as if communicating a sexual suggestion. Cuilan stared at her in astonishment.The workshop head let go and said, as if nothing had happened, “I won’t noteit in your record.”Cuilan exited the factory gates and boarded the public bus back to her home.On the bus ride she pondered the meaning of her supervisor’s words, sensingthat something unforeseen would happen to her. She was a little unsettled, alittle excited, and a little eager. After all, she was tired of her work at the instrumentfactory. The monotonous pattern every day, the familiar faces, suddenlyfilled her with aversion.That evening she received a phone call from the head of the workshop tellingher to take two weeks off, with full pay. Cuilan doubted her ears and asked threetimes to be sure, each time with an affirmative reply. Yet she felt no reassurance.“Cuilan, I’ll tell you a secret: the man in the antiques shop is my benefactor. Iknow you don’t love him, but that doesn’t keep him from loving you.” Her voicesounded peculiar.“He doesn’t love me at all,” Cuilan said.“Doesn’t love you? Don’t joke around.”The head of the workshop seemed angry when she hung up the phone. Cuilanstared blankly at the picture of a film star on her wall. Her mind in its turmoilcouldn’t judge what happened right in front of her. Everything seemed tobe turned upside down. She had unexpectedly been given two weeks’ vacationthrough Mr. You’s influence. Her supervisor believed Mr. You cared for Cuilan.To repay him, because he was her benefactor, she had given Cuilan a holiday insteadof punishing her. What was the matter? Had the world gone mad?Now that Cuilan had two weeks of freedom, she ought to visit Wei Bo, whowas, after all, the only person in the world dear to her. Yet once she thought ofthe awkwardness of the last time, once she thought of having to go to that placeagain, she hesitated. She believed she loved Wei Bo, but she was not used tothe way he was behaving. He seemed to have turned into a different person,vulgar and coarse, like an animal, as soon as he entered the detention center.If loving someone meant loving through all, could she love this animal? Shethought again of Miss Si at the cotton mill. Was Wei Bo like this with her? Themore closely she had thought about such things, the more she had despised herself.Someone knocked on the door.It was her ex-boyfriendXiao He.“I’m not here to get involved. I came to share some information.” He smiledplacatingly. “They’re transferring Wei Bo to the detention center at Pear Mountain.I saw them on the road. Wei Bo looked unstable. You can call to confirm.The number is .”Cuilan let him into the apartment. She had no way of knowing whether hewas lying.Xiao He rudely sat down at the table. Cuilan knew his wretched appearancewas an act, and it did not move her.“Pear Mountain is cold and deserted, with wolves howling in the wilderness.”“I received the money you sent,” Cuilan said, “altogether , yuan.”“I’m so glad. I have to go now. Write down the phone number: .”“Don’t fill your head with random numbers, it’s not good for your health. Is itthe same Pear Mountain where I went with you?”“Exactly, the same place.”He left, a breath of the wilderness lingering where he had sat.Many years earlier Cuilan and Xiao He had roamed the city, strolling throughthe markets, going to snack shops and teahouses, meeting friends in small restaurants.There had been more cheerfulness than anxiety in her youth. Her relationshipwith Xiao He lasted a year. Toward the end of autumn they took a busto Pear Mountain.Pear Mountain was covered with scattered stones, without any trees. Theystood at the foot of the mountain watching the summit merge into the mist andclouds. Xiao He said there were wolves, so they circled the base of the mountain,too scared to climb it. The strange thing was the absence of villages or cottagesnear the mountain, which rose abruptly from the ground. There was onlya stretch of wilderness to the west.Without venturing a word they walked on, two people with vacant minds.Cuilan was intrigued by the narrow, winding footpath. It was unclear who hadblazed this trail ringing the mountain, not too close or too far.The sun would soon set behind the mountain. A chill fall wind started to gust.They went hand-in-handalong the road home. Cuilan kept turning back to lookat Pear Mountain, but the peak stayed immersed in the clouds. She asked XiaoHe, “Why is that path there?”“I’ve been thinking about the path, too. Pear Mountain must have drawn manypeople here. Just now, when we were walking, I felt I had reached the center ofthe earth. Even though I’m a traffic cop—isn’t my work ridiculous? Damn it.”After that Cuilan never went back to Pear Mountain, and she soon forgot theplace completely.While Xiao He held the memory firmly.Now Cuilan longed for someone to come talk with her about Pear Mountain.Should she dial the phone number? Xiao He might be deceiving her. She hadnever been able to understand this policeman with his mind full of stratagems.This trait had been what attracted her to him. Afterward she summed up her experience:doing what he said was more often than not the best option.“Hello, is this the Number  Detention Center?”“Why are you calling in the middle of the night? I’m on duty, what is it?”“Has Wei Siqiang been brought there for questioning?”“There is someone by that name here. Why are you looking for him? Oh, Iknow, you’re Cuilan!”“How do you know my name?”“I’m not the only one. Everyone in the detention center knows you! Wei Siqiangwrote a song about you and sings it at the top of his voice. He’s been punishedfor it a number of times.” The man speaking became excited.Cuilan hung up the phone, her face burning. She stood and paced back andforth in a haze of confusion. She hated Wei Bo so much she ground her teeth.Even when she was a child she had not liked being in public. Well, now she wasnewsworthy. She didn’t mind that those people would think she was a whore, butshe couldn’t stand being notorious.She didn’t have to go to work tomorrow, and she couldn’t go back to sleep, soshe went for a stroll outside.In the deep of night the city appeared to be dead. The streetlights failed toilluminate its dark places. Suddenly Cuilan sensed some object churning in thedepths of the shadows. She heard these rolling things make a sound, hu hu hu.She thought the sound was melancholy, also pleasant, reminding her of how shefelt sitting in the honeymoon suite talking with Jin Zhu. She wondered, Whatkind of person is Jin Zhu? It was as if she had different expectations from lifethan Cuilan. What kind of expectations? The two women who’d escaped fromthe mill and made their way in the world seemed already to have experiencedmany changes. Cuilan admired them, but knew she could not be like them. Whatcategory did she belong to? “Calling it ‘not one type or the other’ would fit prettywell,” she said aloud, to herself.Someone in the shadows below a high-risecalled to her, “Sister,” three times,then walked out of the shadows. It was a tall, martial young man.“Who are you?”“I’m the man who answered your phone call.”“Then you’re not at Pear Mountain? Are you guys trying to fool me?”Cuilan glared at him in fury, wanting to slap him in the face.“I’m off today, so I’m not there. But Wei Bo really is at Pear Mountain. I’m agood friend of Xiao He. He and I talked about you and Wei Bo, and he told meto help you.”“Go to hell. Drop dead!”She indignantly turned to go back, regretting having gone out in the middleof the night.“My name is Yuan Hei, Black Yuan. I’m a guard at the Number  DetentionCenter. Don’t be angry, what I told you about Wei Bo is true. I never lie.”He followed behind stubbornly.Cuilan reached her building and climbed to the second floor. He followed herupstairs.“Please come in!” Cuilan opened the door wide.He turned bashful, saying, “Would that be appropriate?”Cuilan was about to close the door when he squeezed into the room.He wouldn’t sit down and just stood in the middle of the room twisting hishands. The boy looked honest enough. Cuilan didn’t know why he had come.“Cuilan, my name is Yuan Hei.”“You said that already.”“Wei Bo told me you weren’t satisfied with the location the detention centerprovided for your rendezvous. The matter has already been reported to thehigher authorities and will be improved in the future.”“Will Wei Bo always be kept under investigation?”“I don’t know, but you should make long-termplans.”“Does he want to stay on the inside?”“I haven’t asked him. You can ask him yourself next time.” He paused andchanged the topic. “Cuilan, Xiao He is a trustworthy man. There aren’t manylike him left.”“What do you mean? That we should be a couple like before? But you’re helpingWei Bo by passing information. What’s the matter? My mind is in chaos.”“No, no, that’s not what I meant!” He was so anxious she could see his faceturning red in the lamplight. “I was saying that Xiao He is an admirable man.From now on I will try to be like him. Do you think there’s hope for me?”“I can’t judge. My mind is in chaos,” Cuilan said dejectedly.“I have to go back. Goodbye!”For a long time after turning off the lights, Cuilan thought about what hadjust happened. When had she parted ways with Xiao He? She couldn’t remember.In fact, even when the physical relationship was over, it seemed as thoughthey had not broken up completely. They were in touch once or twice a year. Hewas usually the one who contacted her, but she didn’t mind, because he alwaysmade her curious, amused her—she wanted to hear what he had to say. Sometimesshe imagined Xiao He as a spider endlessly spinning out threads of aimlessclues. Tonight, right after Xiao He went away, she had dredged the hallway a fewtimes with her hands to see whether he left behind cobwebs. She had thought atfirst that he must be jealous of Wei Bo, but now understood this was not the case.This proved Xiao He did not love her anymore, although he continued to focushis attention on her, and she did not know what he had in mind.Thoughts are clearest before dawn. Cuilan visualized the narrow, windingtrail beneath Pear Mountain, then all at once recalled a sight she had forgottenall these years—the lynxes appearing and disappearing among the loose stoneson the mountainside, a number of them . . . and she had smelled food and cookingfires. That was to say, the mountain was alive. She had wanted to climb themountain, but Xiao He held her back, saying, “There are things you can studyfor twenty, thirty years and still not understand.” He wanted to go back home,urgently, so she abandoned her plan.“Xiao He, Xiao He, you cunning man.” She quietly rehearsed these words,then noticed the windowpane growing lighter by degrees.She slept soundly in the sunlight.At the foot of the building, a young man squatted in a clump of rouge-flower,smoking. It was Yuan Hei from the detention center. Yuan Hei had been throughsuch difficulties on account of love that he had almost tried to kill himself. Hewas the first of Miss Si’s lovers, Miss Si from the cotton mill whose name meant“silk.” Now he had fallen in love with a forty-three-year-oldjailer and was againfacing the prospect of abandonment.Xiao He had planned the previous night’s events to enlighten Yuan Hei. XiaoHe couldn’t have actually said in which regard he wanted to enlighten him.Wasn’t Yuan Hei doing well enough? Once they started drinking, though, oncethey started talking, Xiao He could not help boasting and told him about hisscheme.Cuilan slept heavily among the traces of these clues.TwoWei Bo and A Si’sPast AffairThe relationship between Wei Bo and A Si was partly public, in that everyoneexcept Wei Bo’s wife knew about it. His wife might have known, too, but withoutcaring. She had her own entanglements. Among all of Wei Bo’s affairs, only theone with Miss Si was not a secret.Wei Bo first saw A Si and fell head over heels for her when he held a part-timejob at the same cotton mill. He tailed the young woman around the factorygrounds for days on end. A Si, discovering early on that she was being followed,sized up Wei Bo from a distance. Over the following days she felt waves of emotionrise and fall and lost sleep at night. Then one day she walked straight up toWei Bo and said, “How much will you pay to keep me?”Wei Bo blinked and thought for a while before answering honestly, “I’m not awealthy man, but I will do my best to help you.”A Si promptly drew her arm through his, and they made a show of leaving thefactory together.Getting a job at the hot springs as a sex worker was A Si’s own idea. At firstWei Bo tried to object, but after he went to see her workroom at the factory a fewtimes he did not say a thing.Wei Bo threw himself into various jobs, hoping to rescue Miss Si as soon aspossible. After two years he realized A Si was not disgusted by her new job. Shewas calm, managed her work with composure, and no longer showed any of thefeelings of anxiety from when she’d worked at the cotton mill. Being young andpretty, she earned enough to plan for buying herself a unit in an apartment complex.What attracted Wei Bo was the lively look in A Si’s eyes. He had never meta young woman as lovely and clever as she was. He felt that her every glanceheld at least two meanings, making him, a grown man, lose track of his tangledthoughts. He could never make up his mind when he was with her. A Si was verycandid with him and never talked in circles. Wei Bo knew she had at least twoother boyfriends.Speaking in general, sex workers rarely fall in love with their clients becausethe transaction is monetary. Miss Si, it seemed, lacked a head for business andtime after time had romantic affairs with hers. Even when other people pointedout her mistake, she didn’t think it was one.“I can’t see how what I’m doing is wrong,” she said to Wei Bo. “What’s so greatabout business? Is life just for doing business? People are judged by whetherthey’re good at it. I’m not, of course, but I don’t fault other people, either.”She said this all with a radiant smile that Wei Bo found incredibly touching.“What I regret most is not leaving the cotton mill sooner.” She added, “Thisjob is much better than that one. I’ll have more control over my work after youand my other friends help me buy a place. Some people tell me I should stopworking, and sometimes I want to stop. But what will I do if I’m not working? I’dbe too lonely. I’d rather keep my life the way it is. I’m sort of fond of taking risks.”One time A Si was abused by someone in the criminal underworld whocovered her face in bruises and cut off a chunk of her hair so that she had to shaveall of it and wear a hat. Wei Bo sat in her cozy two-roomapartment, watching herwith the scene of when he had first met her flickering across his mind, as thoughhe were in a dreamworld. She was still beautiful, of course, even though she hadexperienced so much of life already. He suddenly heard her say, “I’m the kind ofperson who would die for love. Why do I keep misjudging people?”“You don’t misjudge people, you only follow what your heart tells you to do.The other person changes his mind. It’s a common thing,” Wei Bo answered hercalmly.“You’re too good, Wei Bo. I love you.” Her panda bear eyes (the result of violence)glittered.“I love you too, A Si.”That day they talked about many things together. They discovered that theyhad as much in common as twins.Wei Bo only had to think of A Si for a vague ache to appear somewhere in thearea of his heart. Ah, the ages that pass like the flowers! Ah, an abyss too deep to see thebottom! Ah, the perilous future! Ah, the endless turmoil and confused wandering! Ah. . . These were the exclamations of wonder his heart made at the way A Si lived.He sometimes felt depressed from constantly worrying about her. The strangething was that he rarely thought about whether A Si actually loved him or not.Maybe he had decided from the start that this question was meaningless. She wastoo lovely. Her body was as tender as a tropical fish. Wei Bo felt as though he hadbeen given a gift he didn’t deserve, which left him no room for debate.“A Si, A Si, I love you . . .” he repeated in a murmur.“Wei Bo, I love you too!” she answered, gasping. “What if there were no menlike Wei Bo in the world? What a loss!”Wei Bo saw more than once the quietly smoldering black torch in A Si’s eyes.He understood this young woman’s internal energy, as well as the capacity fordanger to which it led. Many people knew she worked in this apartment complexas a prostitute. She might suddenly disappear any day.A Si was talented in addition to being beautiful, gifted at managing her life,vivacious, and considerate. Wei Bo couldn’t stand to see her meet misfortune.One time Wei Bo bumped into Long Sixiang at A Si’s apartment complex.Long Sixiang rushed over and took his arm, her face filled with envy.“Wei Bo, Wei Bo, you’re so charming. Miss Si has feelings for you. You mustseize the opportunity! So far as I know, none of her lovers has lasted more thana year. You’ve had several.”“I love her one day at a time. On the day I don’t love her, I’ll leave her.”“There’s also Cuilan. Have you forgotten her? I think you and Cuilan are abetter match.”“It’s possible, but Cuilan wouldn’t stay with me for long.”“Hmm, do you really still believe in everlasting love? Isn’t that nonsense?”“I’m sorry, Sixiang, I’ve said the wrong thing again.”Long Sixiang indignantly let go of his arm and moved a little further away.Wei Bo’s whole face burned. He felt like a rotten egg. He had made up hismind so many times not to go to A Si’s apartment. He didn’t know why he had tocome when she called on the phone. She was also lonely. It was hard for a womanlike her to find a lover who was her equal. Wei Bo excused himself for cominghere time after time.The apartment complex was called the Camellia Apartments, a name Wei Bothought extremely fitting for Miss Si’s home. Wasn’t she a deep red camellia?They had looked for a place together, and Wei Bo was there the day she movedinto it. While several of her “brothers” had a drink together, Wei Bo, his head fullof camellias, watched A Si’s cheeks flush crimson. As it turned out the place wasnot as suitable as its name suggested. Before long Wei Bo discovered A Si wasbeing watched.“I’ve known for a while,” A Si said with a composed smile. “People like meare always exposed under a spotlight. There’s nothing to talk about. So what?”“You’re very brave.”“How could I not be? Ever since leaving the cotton mill, I feel like I couldadapt to anything. It wouldn’t matter if I lived in a den of wolves.”The curtains in her room were always pulled shut with an opening left at theside. She liked to stand there and steal a look outdoors. Whenever Wei Bo sawher standing at the window he couldn’t help sighing over and over. A Si wouldstart to laugh, saying he “did not understand the mindset of the poor.” Wei Boasked her what she meant by “the poor.” She answered that the poor were thosewithout privacy. She said that the poor knew how to enjoy themselves, too; shehad mastered the subtleties of this. Wei Bo thought A Si extraordinary, to holdthis sophistication in her bosom at such a young age.Miss Si was finally arrested for unlicensed prostitution and taken away “tobe educated.” Wei Bo learned from another prostitute that when A Si was questionedby the judicial officials she often seemed absentminded and had to be reprimandedmany times for giving answers that did not fit the questions. She wassentenced to hauling sand, very hard labor. Wei Bo and another of her “brothers”spent a large sum of money to buy her out again.“They keep saying I’m fallen, but I don’t think I am. It’s only prejudice, it’sthe rigid laws,” she said to Wei Bo.Wei Bo just smiled bitterly. They both knew the informant was the old mandownstairs, but A Si did not hold a grudge against him. On the contrary, she saidthe old man wasn’t really so old, that he was all alone without a woman for a companion,and that he needed pity. “Not that I want him to keep informing on me,of course. I’m not fit to go to prison. I might start having hallucinations aboutnever being able to leave, which would be like returning to the workroom at thecotton mill. When they were questioning me, all I could hear was the bang bangbang of the machines. They think I’m resisting, but I’m not doing it on purpose.”Every time Wei Bo recalled these words, he would realize again what kind ofmemories the factory had left her, and at the same time be shocked at her resilience.Without having met Miss Si, Wei Bo could never have imagined someonein her situation being so undisturbed. He sensed that the young woman wasable to think deeply and thoroughly about what happened to her and was in thisrespect more experienced than himself.Wei Bo wanted to go back to the cotton mill with A Si so they could find thewooden bench where they’d sat the first time they talked. Although A Si was reluctant,she finally agreed to go.Choosing a day when the mill was closed, they snuck onto the factory groundsand looked here and there with welling emotions. They sat down on the woodenbench with the yulan magnolia behind them. Wei Bo suggested on a whim thatthey go look at the workroom, saying he had seen the door was left open. A Sihesitated, but agreed.Wei Bo would forever regret what happened next: A Si fell fainting among themachines and cut her head open. He gathered her in his arms, ran from the factory,and hailed a taxi to take them to the emergency room. The wound from themachine tool was so deep he was convinced A Si was dying.Later it turned out to be a false alarm. The doctor said the wound was deep,to be sure, but somehow not a serious injury. The doctor also said A Si’s healthwas exceptional. If it had been someone else, the injury might have been grave.Wei Bo wondered, not understanding what the doctor’s words meant. He stoodin the corridor outside the observation room berating himself, repentant to thepoint of madness.After only two days of observation, the doctor said A Si could leave the hospital.How was this possible? Such a large wound, which had not been suturedor treated for inflammation, and just like that . . . discharged? Wei Bo tried askingfor more information, but the doctor waved him off and told them to leave.“A Si, will you be all right?” Wei Bo’s voice shook.“Oh, Wei Bo, you think too little of me! I wanted to fall against the machinesand get hurt, so of course I’m sure of my recovery. You don’t need to worry.”As she was speaking A Si moved the white sheet aside and got out of bed. WeiBo saw the deep cavity on her head, and cold sweat oozed down his back.She bent over to tie her shoelaces like a normal person, then picked up herbag and said she wanted to go home. Wei Bo hurried to support her.A Si sat in the car with the side of her head that was not injured toward WeiBo, looking at him from time to time with a foolish smile. Wei Bo couldn’t guesswhy she was so happy.“Does it hurt?”“What does it matter? I could stand the pain even if it were ten times worse.”Once they got back to A Si’s home at the Camellia Apartments, Wei Bo askedher why she had wanted to hurt herself. She answered that she could not standthe hallucination she was having.He kept her company for three unforgettable days. No one disturbed them.He was like her husband.A Si made a large white flower out of gauze to cover her wound. She wasstill weak from the loss of blood. She leaned on Wei Bo’s shoulder and told himquietly about how when they were on the workroom floor of the cotton mill shesuddenly felt as though she belonged there, that she would always belong to thatplace. Then the accident followed. When she had worked there, young men hidin the holly trees at the factory entrance waiting for her shift to end. She rememberedit as her golden age. She was not sad to have left that life, though, becauseone must mature. Why would she injure herself? Wei Bo exhausted his mindwithout figuring out why. A Si was too strange. If she thought she would alwaysbelong there, then going back was simply going back. She also thought that shecould never go back, that staying at the cotton mill was a dead end, just like itwas for her good friend (that girl who died in the workroom, who sat down feebly,and it was over). No, A Si wasn’t like a horse that always grazes in the same place.After dinner they sat nestling on the balcony, watching the sky grow darker bydegrees. There was someone in the flower garden across the way watching themwith binoculars. A Si said it was the Informant.“This is what I like best,” A Si whispered in Wei Bo’s ear. “Isn’t it like judgmentday? Look, he stood up—ha, he squatted back down. He’s next to the acaciatree, the lover’s tree. Give me a kiss—no, on this side. Oh, terrific! I love that oldman. Don’t you believe me?”After a while, she continued, “I’ve never even spoken to him! He always hidesfrom me. I want to tell him not to feel any regret . . . Wei Bo, you have to go towork tomorrow, but I can’t be without you! What can he see, now that it’s dark?”On the walk home Wei Bo cried the whole way. The expanse of darkness in hismind made him feel like he was looking out over an abyss.When he reached home, his wife didn’t seem to notice anything out of theordinary. Wei Bo ordered himself not to go to A Si, at least for a short time. Hehoped he would be able to do this.As it turned out, he didn’t go to her place for a long time. He became a littlebit . . . how could one put it? A little bit decadent. Many things inside him werein the gradual process of dying. He turned into a work machine. Beyond hisoriginal job, he took on all kinds of part-timework, including a job transportingcorpses at the hospital. The work of moving corpses brought him a certain comfort.He harbored a gentle state of mind as he thought of these bodies that hadstopped breathing, as he carefully arranged them.When the door closed behind him, A Si thought, What a sensible man! Ifsouls are reincarnated, could the two of them have been the same person at anearlier time?She picked up her cosmetics case and began to do her makeup, applying athick layer of powder to her pallid face. Now, with the large white flower of gauzeon her head, Miss Si looked a little like a Japanese geisha.She walked back and forth across the room, ghostly. She heard the clock onthe wall strike nine.Someone knocked on the door.“Who is it?”“It’s me, your neighbor.”The Informant entered. He was not as old as he usually appeared to be andeven looked energetic in the mild lamplight. His eyes latched onto Miss Si’sbody like hooks. He was muttering something ambiguous. A Si leaned closerand heard that he was asking her to take off the large white flower on her head.He wanted to see the wound.A Si removed the white flower and leaned her head toward him.She heard the elderly man make a strange cry and run from the apartment.She laughed coldly and went across to close the door. She wondered, What hadthe old man seen? If she saw him tomorrow she would have to ask. Shortly beforeA Si’s father passed away he had told her to find a friend of his, but withouttelling her how to get in contact. Could this strange elderly man be her father’sclose friend?She sank into melancholy recollections. Oh, that winter, the sky full of snowflakes!Her father struggling to breathe, her mother weeping at the bedside, A Sisuctioning the phlegm for her father with a tube. Even now she could hear herpanicking voice, “Father, do you feel a little better?”Her father pointed with one finger to something outside the window and repeated,“Si . . . Si . . .”She never understood, from beginning to end, what her father wanted. Shewas so upset she wept along with her mother, their arms around each other.Her father had not died then, but lasted another year before passing. It wasa hellish time. Every evening, as the sun fell behind the mountains, the paroxysmsstarted. The demons surged in feverishly with the night, yet her father wastenacious. She wished he would die, to ease his pain, but he refused to go. Thatyear was A Si’s greatest trial, her soft heart hardening in the wake of each of thoseterrifying fits.In his final moments her father left her with a smile. He was pleased withhis daughter.She and her mother took her father’s ashes and buried them a little here anda little there around the courtyard. Not long after the courtyard was flattened bybulldozers.A Si felt the wound on her head with her hand. The cut was a little swollen,though not painful. Why had she wanted to throw herself against the machines?She didn’t know. Maybe she wanted to find out what material made up her body.That year her father had already made this experiment. She remembered that asshe threw herself against that ice-coldobject she had repeated to herself, “I haveto, I have to . . .” Afterward she felt guilty toward Wei Bo. Inwardly she called herself“a woman who ruins other people’s lives.”Since she had left the cotton mill, the scope of her activities had expanded.She dug into the city’s crevices, avidly absorbing the nourishment of life. Sheknew innately which places would be nourishing. Naturally, rejection was thebest teacher. Nothing could make her mature more quickly than running againstwalls and being rebuffed. She thought she even wanted to be rebuffed. So shehad thrown herself against the machine tool. Ha, that was why! Couldn’t she sayshe was becoming more intelligent?In her memories A Si walked through the gloomy shadows cast by the smalltown’s single-storybuildings. Her mother was the most enlightened mother inthe world. She and A Si parted ways when the daughter was seventeen and founda job as a spinner at the cotton mill. A Si’s mother said she was going to thecountryside to visit relatives and would be away for a long time.“I haven’t been to see them since I married your father. I heard they’ve allmoved into Dongting Lake, putting up thatched-roofedsheds where the water isshallow and raising ducks for a living. What would that be like? I have to see inperson to know for sure.”Her mother’s face flushed as she spoke these words. Her eyes showed heryearning for a life of freedom. A Si sensed vaguely that this time they were separatingnever to meet again. She wanted to cry, but instead she began to laugh foolishly.Her mother laughed along with her, then she said, “Come to join me soon.”After she left she never contacted A Si again. A Si thought about how she wasso much like her mother. Thinking of these events now, she was grateful to herparents. She had gone to the lake region when she happened to pass by it on herway somewhere else. She had seen the thatched huts, but they were crooked andleaned in all directions. There couldn’t possibly be anyone living in them. Thehuts where people lived seemed to have been gone for many years. An old fishermantold her, “In those days it was as lively here as when the theater is in town.”Before falling asleep A Si heard an ancient voice singing a love song in theflower garden out front. It sounded like the downstairs Informant. The ardent,ringing voice accompanied A Si’s somber, extended dream. In the dream A Sisaid to the hidden singer, “Where I live the winter thunder is rolling in and thoseleaning shacks are everywhere I look. Can you sing about this scene?” She wasactually standing beside Dongting Lake, the lake of caves, with the wind from thelake blowing so hard she could not keep her footing. She said to herself softly,“Such a good dream, I don’t want to wake up.”She woke up at noon the next day.She saw her lover from when she worked at the cotton mill, the Trailblazer,sitting on the windowsill. The curtains were open. Golden sunlight filled thewhole room.“I heard you were injured and hurried over. Your door was unlocked andopened with one push. What’s the matter with it? I saw an old man messingwith the lock. Was he playing a trick on you?”“That old man is a friend of mine,” A Si said, disappointed.“Once I heard about your injury, all the affection I had for you came back tolife. Do you still remember those times we spent in the factory park? You’re notbadly hurt?”A Si dully observed the Trailblazer’s handsome face and felt the same seductionas before. Yet this temptation seemed to be separated from her by a membrane,such that at this moment it no longer touched her. He had so much lifein him! Had he come to test her? A Si lowered her head and started giggling.The Trailblazer pounced on her. A Si snatched a pair of scissors from the tableand stabbed the man in the arm.“You’re really extreme.” He retreated through the door, saying, “A Si, I loveyou even more!”“Love, what’s love? My door is unlocked. You can visit any time.”After he left, her neighbor the Informant stuck his head in at the door.“Couldn’t you wear a shower cap?” he implored.“I can’t. The cut needs air. What did you see in it?”“I saw—an abyss!”He slammed the door shut in despair.A Si lay in the bathtub, listening silently to the noise in the hallway, with anintuition that the Trailblazer had not gone yet. Maybe he was talking with the oldman. Years ago, he was the one who had altered her stifled life and helped herthrough difficulties. Now she repaid his kindness with revenge. The old man wasthe kind of person who interested her. He had seen an abyss in her wound thathorrified him. Was he her father’s friend?A Si dressed slowly and deliberately. Her movements in the sunlight seemedto her almost unreal. She heard the sound of cloth tearing. It must be him bindinghis wound—the indomitable Trailblazer.Many years earlier Wei Bo and Long Sixiang had a brief affair. Long Sixiangwas still a young woman and bashful around men. Without knowing how it happened,she fell in love with him, bewildered, convinced that Wei Bo was a suitableman to take as a lover. Wei Bo did not fall in love with her at first, although hesoon recognized her distinctive charm. She was the uninhibited type of woman,with more vigor than normal people, and so exuberant it was hard to believe. Forlong afterward Wei Bo’s blood surged when he thought of her. Then she married.He consciously distanced himself from her. After she was married she didn’tseek him out either, so he believed she had found happiness. She left him withglorious memories.Many years later, when Wei Bo ran into this former lover at the hot springs,the shock was enormous. He saw the vivacious young Sixiang now middle-aged,her beauty faded and face wrinkled. She had lost her family and was all alone.“Oh, Wei Bo, I’m not good enough for you now, but I’m still searching forwhat will make me happy.”When she said the word hap—py she bared her teeth, showing a wide gap betweenthe front two.Wei Bo’s heart tensed and shrank. He grasped both of her hands tight. Sheabruptly pushed him away and burst into laughter.“You big idiot! You’re like a brother to me now. You have to help me! My friendJin Zhu and I waited too long to leave the cotton mill. But I believe there’s notoo late, only too lazy. Don’t you think so? When there’s enough will, it’s nevertoo late.”“Well said! Well said!” Wei Bo’s commendation was loud and sincere.This was when he finally noticed Jin Zhu, a dark, thin, middle-agedlaborerwho appeared to be ill, standing behind Long Sixiang. Jin Zhu walked over tohim in a poised way and took his arm. The two women, one on each side, wereall but hanging off of Wei Bo. Then the three of them went to the reception roomtogether and fell onto the sofa.That same day Wei Bo helped the women find jobs as sex workers at the spa.The two women fell in love with Wei Bo at the same time, although it wasn’ta sexual attraction.After Long Sixiang learned about Wei Bo’s relationship with Miss Si, she wentthrough a period of jealousy during which she did all she could to slander A Si,leaving Wei Bo very unhappy. Long Sixiang’s unconventional way of attackingA Si also puzzled him. For example, she talked about A Si having a secret lover.This lover was a powerful man who could help A Si leave her current situationto lead an upper-classlife. A Si’s nature, however, was difficult to change. Shepreferred to be a prostitute, to struggle bitterly on the lowest level of society.Why? Because she was the kind of woman whom nothing could satisfy. Thatlover would not relinquish her and waited, suffering, for her to change her mind.Another time Long Sixiang said A Si had an unmentionable disease that preventedher from getting pregnant. Lacking that ability, she had “vowed to enjoythe pleasures of sex to the fullest.” When Long Sixiang attacked A Si in this furtivemanner, while appearing so excited, Wei Bo vaguely felt that her words hadmultiple meanings. Could she possibly be praising A Si to enflame Wei Bo? LongSixiang gossiped about these things so much that Wei Bo was no longer angry.He gradually learned how to listen attentively for the information she gave him.Wei Bo sat in Long Sixiang’s small room with advertisements featuring handsomemen pasted all over the walls and said to her, “You’re concerned for A Si,aren’t you? You don’t need to worry.”Long Sixiang’s tears fell as she said gently, “Hush, this doesn’t need saying!”Wei Bo stroked Long Sixiang’s hair, which was black as a crow’s wing, andsighed with many emotions. He knew the life in front of her was the same asA Si’s, filled with hardship and uncertainty. From the bottom of his heart heprayed for Long Sixiang to have good luck, to keep her health.“Wei Bo, I’m going to take you somewhere,” she whispered in his ear.“Where?”“To hell. Do you dare? I’m talking about the little house where A Si’s motherlives on the outskirts of the city. Are you interested?”“Of course I’m interested. I’ve never heard A Si mention her mother. Doesshe even know where she lives? It’s crazy!”“It is crazy. She doesn’t know where her mother lives, but I do.”So the two of them went to where A Si’s mother lived.What a place it was! A low single mudbrick room surrounded on all sides bypigsties belonging to her relatives. Sitting in her room they could hear the pigs’constant squealing, plaintive, as though they were being starved by their owners.The elderly woman wore a patterned scarf the way peasant women do, her manneralso like a woman from the countryside. Wei Bo was surprised that in broaddaylight she had pulled the curtains tight, concealing the inside of the room. Atelevision set placed on a worn, crooked table was playing a pornographic filmwith the sound turned down low. When they came in, the old woman might havebeen watching it. She didn’t turn off the TV when they sat down. Wei Bo watchedfor a moment, but, finding the film too stimulating, he promptly turned his eyesaway. The moans still reached his ears.“Mother, this is A Si’s friend, I’ve brought him to you,” Long Sixiang said,hugging her.“Who are you?” she asked.Wei Bo felt a pair of panther’s eyes staring at him. His heart pounded andraced.“I work at a soap factory and part-timeat a few other jobs . . . I, I’m a goodfriend of your daughter. We’ve known each other for . . .”“Who are you really?” she interrupted impatiently. “Was it you who took meto the hospital twenty-eightyears ago? Why do you look so familiar?”“Answer Mother honestly,” Long Sixiang said quietly in Wei Bo’s ear.“It could be, Mother.” Wei Bo grew calmer. “I might have done something likethat. I know that your daughter A Si is very distinctive.”“Don’t flatter, it’s no use. You don’t seem to be a complete disaster, like A Sihas always been. Sixiang, who’s she fooling around with now?”“The largest opium dealer in the South China region. He’s an addict who’sbeen to prison twice.”“Huh, can messing around with a man like that end well?”A sudden burst of squealing outside made their hair stand on end. The threewere silent. For a while none of them opened their mouths. There were only thelewd sounds coming from the couple (two women) on the TV. The atmospherein the room was very strange.“Mother,” Long Sixiang spoke first, “has the old pig keeper gone out?”“Oh, he went to market. Two of the pigs are going to customers who’ve arrangedto buy them. He left first thing this morning. He didn’t feed the pigs andwon’t let me help him. He’s a killer!”Long Sixiang told Wei Bo in a lowered voice that the swineherd, a very handsomeold man, was the boyfriend of A Si’s mother. “If I were in her place, I’d bein love with him, too!” She abruptly raised her voice. “You shouldn’t think beinga pig keeper is a bad job. Every field has its high achievers,” she added.A Si’s mother watched Long Sixiang, nodding as she spoke, as though immersedin memories.“Winter was so cold that year! The pigs almost froze to death, but we had nomoney. The doors and windows of the pigsties were shattered by the wind. Thetroughs turned to ice. I’d never seen such a snowstorm.”After these few sentences she stopped, growing irritated.“How can he still be wandering around outside? Damn that guy! I’ll kill him!I’m easily provoked . . . Hey, soap factory drudge, you’ve seen that the womenin our family can get upset easily! I suggest you settle down as soon as possible.Humph.”Long Sixiang saw that things were going poorly and hauled Wei Bo outside.They walked back and forth among the pigsties. Wei Bo covered his ears withboth hands, but the shrieks still turned his face white. He felt as if he were thepig being slaughtered.Long Sixiang, meanwhile, was as calm as if she did not hear them.“Do you understand everything now?” she asked.Wei Bo did not understand at all. What sort of woman was A Si’s mother? Whyhad Long Sixiang wanted him to come here? His sole impression was that the oldwoman had a cruel temper.“No, Sixiang, I don’t understand.”“Good!” Long Sixiang clapped her hands. “Your not understanding is understanding!”With her first clap the pigs went mad, their cries rising straight to the heavens.Two spotted pigs burst out of the pen and tore toward them. Wei Bo rushed topush Long Sixiang away, shielding her. He heard A Si’s mother in the distancestomping her feet and cursing.After the two possessed pigs rushed past, they turned around and dashed backtoward them. Wei Bo dragged Long Sixiang against the earthen wall of the building—there were even more pigs inside.The spotted pigs finally disappeared from sight. Wei Bo, who was drippingwith sweat, asked Long Sixiang, “Will we make it back alive?”“What are you talking about, Wei Bo? You’re shameless!”He saw her eyes shining with boundless excitement.They walked for at least half an hour before leaving the pigsties behind andcoming to the main road.Long Sixiang grew listless and complained to Wei Bo as they walked. She saidshe’d been disappointed in love recently and sometimes thought she couldn’tgo on living.“I wish I were A Si’s mother!” she suddenly cried.Then she dragged on Wei Bo’s arm, forcing him to pull her slowly along asshe told him her sorrows. Her words were ambiguous. Wei Bo couldn’t tell whatshe was saying, aside from constantly bringing up A Si, which unsettled him.The bus to the hot springs arrived. Wei Bo helped Long Sixiang onto the bus,supporting her by the arm into a seat. She fell asleep propped against the backof the seat. When the bus reached their stop, Wei Bo had to carry her off in hisarms and walk her to her little room at the spa. Standing out front, she finallywoke up and found her keys in the little purse she was carrying. She reproachedWei Bo: “Why are you here?”“I was seeing you back.”“Ha, I’d forgotten. You really can’t come in, because A Si’s in the room nextdoor. She’s doing business with her new customer, and there’s only a partitionbetween the rooms. You can hear everything. I’m afraid you won’t be able tostand it!”“Then I’ll go.”“Come back! I’ll call A Si to come out! A Si! A Si!”A small gate to the side creaked as A Si’s pale face appeared. She lookedlike she hadn’t slept enough. The gauze flower on her head was kneaded intowrinkles.Wei Bo remembered the wound on her head, shivered involuntarily, and couldnot speak. The greatest question in his mind was, Why did A Si still come to thespa to meet her clients when she had her own apartment? Then Long Sixiangpushed him to the side, telling him, “All right, all right, you’ve seen her. Youshould go. A Si’s busy.”He left unwillingly. Long Sixiang saw him to the entrance of the spa and askedabout his reaction to seeing A Si. He asked her why A Si came here to meet herclients.“Maybe it’s to avoid someone. A Si is very clever. She often meets customershere. Don’t think of her as injured. It doesn’t seem to affect her business. I hearher calling me. Go back home, quick!”Wei Bo felt abandoned by these two women. He was an outsider who couldn’tenter their world. Hadn’t A Si stared at him with indifferent eyes? That provedshe and he were not on the same path. Wei Bo was suddenly exhausted, mentallyand physically. He blindly busied himself here and there, but what was he lookingfor? Didn’t the two women’s behavior toward him show he was extraneous?His mind a stretch of hollowness, his steps slowed—he should go home.Without knowing how it happened, Wei Bo did not go home, but to a smallbar instead.He ordered rice wine because he rarely drank. One man sat at the other endof the bar, the brim of his hat lowered so that his face couldn’t be seen. He hadordered Five Grain liquor, so he was probably well-off.They drank their owndrinks and ate their own food.After finishing two cups of rice wine and a plate of celery with pork liver, WeiBo felt his spirits lift. Through the door he could see that it was already dusk. Hethought, Should I go home right away?“Home is always here, but if you miss a liaison it will never happen,” the manopposite said, raising his hat.He turned out to be Mr. You from the antiques shop.“I know you went to the pigsties with Long Sixiang. No, don’t misunderstandme. I’m not in love with A Si. Sixiang is the one I love, that woman warrior.”He continued, “I’ve been drinking here all day with the old pig keeper. We trusteach other. There’s something I can’t figure out, though. A Si’s mother took overthe pig keeper, but she’s unfaithful, which makes things painful for him. Why?”Wei Bo was a little surprised at Mr. You treating him as if he were a friend. Itmight have been Long Sixiang’s influence.“I can’t understand why,” Wei Bo said. “From my observations of A Si’smother, maybe this is true love. The pig keeper must feel that she loves him.She’s a very special mother. My time at her home was unforgettable.”They talked about a few irrelevant things. Wei Bo saw the moon had alreadyrisen. As his mood mellowed, he finally wanted to go home.Returning home, he saw his wife eating alone. The food was delectable, andshe ate with an appetite. She asked Wei Bo whether he had eaten. He said he hadeaten at a friend’s.When Wei Bo came out of the shower, Xiao Yuan had also finished eating.“Wei Bo,” she began, “I’ve known for a long time that you had affairs. I havetoo, but I don’t want to lose you or this home.” Her expression showed her perplexity.“Then don’t throw them away,” Wei Bo answered tensely.“I saw that young woman. The strange thing is that I wasn’t jealous. I even admiredher. Can you tell me how that’s possible? I do admire A Si, but I couldn’tlive the way she does. Of course, you can’t either, though I think you two wouldbe a good match.”“That’s ridiculous. I’m not with her anymore. She doesn’t belong to me.”Wei Bo sat at home thinking back over what had happened during the day.Feelings of remorse assaulted him. Why couldn’t he answer when A Si’s motherasked him who he was? Like a fool he referred to his occupation, which naturallyproved nothing, so the old woman had stormed and raged, and now she lookeddown on him. His words were spilled water and could not be taken back. Todaywas the day he regretted the most of any since he was born. He thought his performancehad been especially bad. He could not face A Si again.In the middle of the night, he woke up again and lay in the dark pondering.He thought his relationship with A Si must be the greatest failure of his life. Hewas a rotten sort of man. He also thought of Cuilan, whom he had met not longbefore. This woman was obviously more significant, more capable, than himself.Now that his relationship with A Si had fallen into dishonor, he should drawfrom the teachings of experience and treat a woman like Cuilan well. Recentlyhe had been seeing the same familiar place in his dreams, a place similar to thepigsties he had visited that day. Sometimes he was there alone, sometimes hewas walking back and forth with Cuilan. He didn’t know what he was looking forthere, only, in short, that he was looking for something. Cuilan seemed to knowwhat he was looking for while not wanting to help him look. She mocked him,saying he could not see the road under his feet. Could the thing he was lookingfor be underfoot? When he lowered his head, he couldn’t even see his feet. WeiBo recalled what Cuilan said in the dream with a vague premonition: maybe hehad reached a turning point in his life; maybe from today forward he would notbe so awful. Yet Wei Bo was Wei Bo. What could he change into?“How can I change into anything?”His voice was so loud he woke up Xiao Yuan in the adjoining room.“People can change themselves into forms they could never imagine indreams,” she responded from that direction.In the dark Wei Bo’s face burned. He changed his clothes with quiet motionsand went outside to the main road. A man followed behind him, chattering.“There are night wanderers like us everywhere in the city. Look over that way,there’s a light shining in a window on the ninth floor. Who is she waiting for? Itmust be for people like us. Where are you going? You’re a reckless one, you wantto go into the dark . . . Come with me!”He shoved Wei Bo into an alleyway alongside a theater where gamblersgathered throughout the year.Wei Bo obediently let the man drag him along. In any case he could not seein the darkness.They went down many flights of stairs together before reaching level ground.Wei Bo heard the man say, “Sit down.” He and Wei Bo sat on the same bench.Someone lit a candle and walked toward them with an agitated look. Wei Bothought the face above the candle looked like an uncle, his father’s youngerbrother. The man stood in front of Wei Bo, reached out a hand, and presseddown on his head. The agony in Wei Bo’s mind lifted.“Go back often to see your hometown,” he told Wei Bo. “People shouldn’t forgettheir roots.”A gust of wind blew past, extinguishing the candle in his hand.Wei Bo was submerged by the dark again. He sat for a while with the sensationof emptiness around him. He reached out a hand to feel to the side withouttouching the person who had sat down with him. Wei Bo wondered if the othertwo had stealthily left. Figuring that he wouldn’t be able to find the way back, helay down on the bench. Soon he heard a woman’s whimpering, not too far away,and a hoarse male voice at her side consoling her. The man repeated the samething, “A Si, A Si, we’ll fly far, far away . . .”The woman was not Wei Bo’s girlfriend A Si. How many A Si’s were there inthis city? He had been startled to hear that person tell him to go back often tosee his hometown. He’d used to have an ancestral home. When his father wasalive, he took Wei Bo back every year. His father had a strange habit, which wasthat every time before they boarded the train he covered Wei Bo’s eyes with aneyeshade and made him pretend to be blind. He threatened Wei Bo, saying thatif he removed the eyeshade they would not reach their hometown. Young Wei Boobediently let his eyes be covered and sat motionless on the train—he wantedso much to go to their hometown. Not until they reached the home of his uncle,his father’s older brother, was Wei Bo finally allowed to take off the eyeshade. Thetrain ran along for a day and a night, little Wei Bo so lonesome he couldn’t standit. He asked his father over and over whether their hometown was in the northor in the south. Each time his father said it was in the south. Then why was thelarge courtyard where his uncle’s family lived always so cold? The south shouldbe warm. The walls enclosing the courtyard were as tall as two adults. The courtyardwas so enormous that it took half an hour to walk from one end to the other.Wild grass even taller than Wei Bo grew everywhere, drowning the path beneath.The old building had two stories with many, many rooms, which Wei Bo couldnever count exactly because of the peculiar structure of the ancient architecture.One time he actually got lost inside those empty rooms and corridors. He walkedand walked, but whenever he thought he had found the entrance to the stairs, hewas hemmed in again by the unfamiliar passages. This went on until nightfall.He was almost losing hope when his aunt finally found him and led him to thekitchen below to eat dinner. He had returned three times altogether before heturned ten years old. He had countless questions regarding the location of hisancestral home, the geography beyond the courtyard, and so on. His father wastoo impatient to answer him. Only two people, Wei Bo’s uncle and aunt, lived inthe family’s ancestral home. The gate to the courtyard was always locked, andonly the adults had the keys. Even though Wei Bo decided to investigate, he wasnot once able to do what he wanted. His uncle and aunt rarely spoke and neverresponded to Wei Bo’s questions. The three adults’ pastime was evening tea onthe second-floorbalcony. The balcony was large and meticulously clean, with rattanchairs placed all over. The evening wind blew gently as they drank black teaand watched the moon rise bit by bit. In Wei Bo’s memory the moon was brighterthan in the city and as big as the copper basin for handwashing. Was his hometownin the countryside then? That wasn’t right, either. Sitting on the balconyWei Bo could hear the faint sound of motor vehicles driving past in the distanceand see the work lamps of a construction site. If his hometown were located inan urban area, how could there be this courtyard as large as the imperial palaces?The three adults only drank tea, looked at the moon, did not speak. Pot after potof black tea brewed as they sat late into the night. Each time Wei Bo fell asleep inthe middle of it. For him this was the endless fascination of his ancestral home.Was his hometown only so enchanting to him because he had been blindfoldedon the way there? Wei Bo could clearly remember how agitated he became withimpatience when he was going to his hometown. His favorite part was also theevening tea on the balcony, even though it meant spending the entire night sittingthere, without speaking, looking in distraction at the moon. What lingeredin his memory was the impression of waves of emotion. His father pointed athim and said to Wei Bo’s uncle, “Look at this little guy, his wild ambition . . .” WeiBo’s aunt laughed, covering her mouth with her hand. Wei Bo even today did notknow what his father had meant. What wild ambitions did he have? Hadn’t hebecome an ordinary worker at a soap factory? Given his intelligence, he mighthave been a general accountant, but he had not tried hard enough. He thoughtthat things as they were were good enough. His father must have meant somethingelse.Wei Bo turned over to lie face-upand saw a narrow sliver of stars above him.The stars were all faint, since light could not reach through the thick dust in theair over the city. He smelled something ugly and remembered that he was lyingin a place even dirtier than the pigsties. He’d stopped being careful for one instantand now he was associating with gamblers. Or maybe he had always beenone of them?A hand grabbed at his stomach. Someone lay under the bench groaning.“You’re so extravagant. One man taking up a whole bench. In the winter, thisis my reserved seat.”The man stood up, faltering, and stretched.“Long Hair wants you to go back to see your hometown. Why haven’t yougone yet?” he asked.Wei Bo noticed the fluency of his speech. Apparently he wasn’t a drunk.“I need to find out where my hometown is,” Wei Bo said.“Huh, your lot are always like this. I know your type. Are you a governmentemployee?”“I’m not. I sell bamboo cooling mats.”“That’s the same thing. I know your style. This isn’t the place for you. Whenit’s light you should go. Listen to what Long Hair says. Go back to see your hometown.”From Long Sixiang’s intimations A Si learned that her mother lived on theoutskirts of the city surrounded by pigsties. Late at night, when everyone wasquiet, she would imagine what her mother looked like and wonder what she didevery day. Thinking it over, she felt pessimistic about her mother’s prospects.Even so, an intuition told her that her mother was the kind of woman who did notcollapse under pressure, who would never sink to ruin. She wondered, What’swrong with her living between the pigsties? As long as her mind was clear andclean it wouldn’t matter. When A Si’s father was ill for so many years, hadn’ther mother survived and never left him? A Si grew happier at this thought. Hermother liked to cry, but out of loneliness, not weakness. Many years ago, onceA Si, who’d gained a thorough understanding of her mother’s nature, was separatedfrom her, she’d felt to her surprise that a difficulty in her life had been resolved,as if a stone weighing on her mind had fallen to the ground. Now, yearslater, she received news of her mother’s whereabouts. She did not need to go seeher since, Long Sixiang hinted, her mother did not wish to see her. Indirect reportswere enough for them to encourage one another.“A Si, you’re smiling. What’s the good news?” the opium dealer asked in bed.“My mother had someone bring me a message.” A Si turned over to face him.“Congratulations! Your mother must be an extreme woman.”“She’s never hurt anyone.”“An admirable woman.”The opium dealer was suddenly restless and said he needed to catch the nighttrain.He put on his clothes, picked up his briefcase, reached out to open the door,thought for a moment, stood in place, turned back to look fixedly at A Si, andthen said one syllable at a time, “I will be gone for three hundred days and nights.Can you withstand the trial?”He finished and left.A Si said loudly in the direction of the door, “Three hundred days and nightsleading to the grave!”She burrowed into his lingering warmth in the blankets and turned off thelight. She supposed that from now on her mother would often send her messages.So many years had passed. How many times they had plotted out their livestogether while looking at the little violet flowers in the fava bean fields on the hillside!Her mother had even suggested A Si join a troupe of acrobats. Her motherwould travel with them to manage the apparatus and scrape together food. Shesaid mother and daughter would see the world, looking after one another. In fact,her mother had known already that A Si was the kind of girl who didn’t need lookingafter. As A Si remembered now, her mother had been examining her all along,analyzing her nature with complete precision. Could those long talks in the favabean fields have formed A Si’s character, without her being aware?“A Si! A Si!” Wei Bo knocked gently at the door.“Come in, the door isn’t shut!” A Si responded in a loud voice.He entered, repeating, “Don’t turn on the light! Don’t turn on the light! I’mso ashamed I’ll go mad, A Si!”Wei Bo hid in the shadow of a large cabinet, trying to reduce the size of hisbody as much as possible. A Si could picture how distressed he was when he said,“I shouldn’t have come, I’m worthless.”“There’s a stool next to you. You can sit down,” A Si answered.Wei Bo sat down, his heart trying to jump into his mouth.“Look at me. I’ve come to you out of loneliness. It’s despicable, and I’m alwayscausing you trouble. All of a sudden I just had to come back.”“Don’t blame yourself too much, Wei Bo. Sometimes it’s better not to careabout things. Like I do, for instance, though I’m not a good example. Youcouldn’t stand my life. Oh, Wei Bo, you are a good person. Meeting you has beenthe greatest happiness of my life.”“I’ll leave, A Si. You’ve given me strength. You always give me strength.”He came and then left. A Si felt the cut on her head. The wound was healing.It itched.Back then, by the flower garden at the mill, Wei Bo had given her an impressionof freshness, like roses early in the morning! She would use roses to describeWei Bo. Whether they were together or apart, from beginning to end, WeiBo was the rose in the dark places of her heart. The sky would soon be light. Sheknew the Informant had not gone to sleep. He was downstairs shining a flashlightat her window, one of his favorite things to do. A Si gathered the blankets inher arms under the influence of the simmering passion within the apartments.“Camellia Apartments, Camellia Apartments . . . ,” she intoned. Waves of happinessengulfed her.Long Sixiang came to see her at home the next day.“Wei Bo’s acting strange. I’m worried he’s going to extremes,” A Si said in adejected tone of voice.“Impossible, he’s not that kind of person. Even if he did go to extremes,wouldn’t that be an enterprise?” Long Sixiang said, her eyes widening.“Sixiang! Sixiang! You really are like a sister to me . . .”In her enthusiasm A Si kissed Long Sixiang on the cheek.“I simply have to invite you to the West Pavilion for a drink!” she added.Half an hour later, the two of them appeared at the West Pavilion bar.They had just sat down when Mr. You came over.“Ah, beautiful women! My good fortune. It’s drizzling outside. Did you bringumbrellas? I’m here to shelter you under my umbrella. It’s only right to protectprecious royalty such as yourselves.”His expression was melancholy, the beautiful eyes in his pale face no longertwinkling. He seemed to be avoiding the women’s glances. Long Sixiang deducedthat he had gone the whole night without sleeping.The lights were never turned on inside the West Pavilion, which was lit onlywith candles. Shadows swayed on the gray walls. In the spirit of drinking, thethree people gradually turned into one person, not distinguishing you and meamong themselves. Without knowing why, they all came to believe they hadgrown up together in a small courtyard with a raised calabash arbor. Seen frombeneath the arbor, the sun seemed to rest on the tiled roof of the place wherethey all lived. Mr. You said, “A voice shouting into the wind, ‘Come back, LittlePhoenix! Come back . . .’”Long Sixiang and A Si could not help weeping at Mr. You’s story. They bentover the table and sobbed, wu wu. Long Sixiang said through her tears, “Dear You,how could I have fallen in love with someone like you?”“It’s because you and I are like parts of the same body. People who come fromour little courtyard know each other by sight, throughout society . . . Do you bothstill remember the black snake? The one next to the well?”“Of course I remember!” the women said at the same time and stopped crying.They stared at Mr. You, waiting for him to describe it.Mr. You’s mouth opened wider and wider, but no words tumbled out. Hismind was a stretch of white space. He slapped himself in the head, stamped hisfeet in annoyance, poured himself a cup and drained it. Then, face flushed red,he shouted, “It’s . . . It’s . . . I’ve forgotten what it was!”The fat bartender walked over, patted Mr. You on the shoulder, and said affably,“What else could it be? The woman who left, of course!”“How did you know?” Mr. You seized the front of the bartender’s shirt.“Wei Bo told me. I know everything about your group and its affairs.”Mr. You released him and stared blankly at the dark windowpane.When A Si heard him say “Wei Bo,” a rush of warmth rose in her heart. Shesnatched the bartender’s hand and kissed it. Tears obscuring her eyes, she lookedat him and said, “Everything about you reminds me of my father!”The bartender, pleased to hear this, hummed a tune as he walked, swaying,over to the counter.The three companions walked, swaying, holding each other up, down thestreet. No one knew who first said they were going to find Wei Bo. They all rememberedthe words of the bartender at the West Pavilion, “Wei Bo is in prisonundergoing reform.”A farm tractor emerged from the dark. The driver was a rough young man.“Did Lao Yong send you? We want to use the tractor!” Long Sixiang said, herhands on her hips.The young man didn’t make a sound, so the three of them got onto the tractorand sat in the tow bed behind.A Si shivered the entire ride. Long Sixiang leaned over eagerly, “Lao Yong sentthe tractor. Can you believe it? He sits in his spider hole predicting what will happenlike some supernatural spirit. When he and I were at the Mandarin DucksSuites, I thought many times of us turning into one person. A Si, do you thinkI’m being foolish? You’ll make it, we’ll be at the prison in less than two hours . . .although I’m not sure, maybe Wei Bo doesn’t want us to disturb him. He’s beingreformed. It must be pleasant. He’ll be enjoying himself.”“He’s always unhappy with himself.” A Si squeezed Long Sixiang’s hand.“I don’t think it’s strange that someone like him would go to prison on purpose.Are there any rats there?”“Of course there are rats!” Mr. You said, “I can understand why A Si is WeiBo’s idol. He’s a lucky man!”The tractor did not head toward the prison on the outskirts of the city. Whenthey woke from their naps, they discovered it was circling a low hill. The placewas deserted and obscured in the dark so they couldn’t tell whether there was aroad; they couldn’t see anything. All three sensed that they were going in circles.The young man sat holding the steering wheel straight.“Oh, Lao Yong, you’re full of tricks!” Long Sixiang cried, although it wasunclear whether in fury or admiration. The chugging of the tractor, tu tu tu,drowned out her voice.The wind blew violently. On the tractor A Si huddled into a ball, dust and gritstriking her in the face, the oily smoke from the diesel choking her until she almostvomited. She heard Mr. You beside her say, “I want to get down. I’m goingto jump, but don’t tell Wei Bo, either of you . . . One, two, three! I’m jumping!”A Si couldn’t see whether he had jumped or not. She only knew Long Sixiangwas no longer next to her. She felt as though she couldn’t defend herself. Thespecter of death was approaching. Her last thought was that dying on the road tofind Wei Bo would sound good as a cause of death.Then the tractor overturned in a pond.Without struggling, A Si easily swam to the shore. It was only when the windblew the wet clothing against her body that she worried she might catch herdeath of cold. Someone handed her a bundle of clothing. Her teeth chattered,ge ge, and her whole body seemed to shake like a sieve. It took her a long time tomanage to put on the clothing.“Are you Lao Yong?” she asked.“Who else would I be? This is all part of Long Sixiang’s plan. A woman withfantastic, grand ideas! Yesterday she told me that being attached to me meansbeing attached to death. You’ll see, she’ll be here soon to put things in motion.Nothing on heaven or earth frightens her.”“Is that why you love her?”“Bah! Don’t talk about loving, not loving. She’s trash.”“How can I get home, uncle?”“Ha, I’d forgotten that you’d want to go home. Do you see that light to theright up ahead? Just walk toward it. Don’t be afraid.”A Si had not seen any light ahead to the right, but now that Lao Yong said itwas there, there it was. She strode in the direction she imagined to be the rightdiagonal. Strangely enough, she went smoothly along level ground. She couldstill hear Lao Yong behind her saying, “Yes, that’s it.”At daybreak Miss Si, wearing a bizarre outfit, reached the Camellia Apartments.She was embarrassed and hoped no one had seen her.The Informant stood at the main entrance to her unit. The elderly man wasobviously waiting for her with a basket of chrysanthemums in his hands. He wasactually wearing wrinkled formal wear.As she went upstairs, he followed her, chattering.“Why do you have to do illegal things? Your friend Sixiang’s partner is beingmonitored. He’s the subject of investigation for dealing in inferior steel. Oh,why do you get involved in their mists of collusion? Did you think your trip onthe tractor was just to go for a spin? They’re using you as a front to smuggle theinferior goods. I followed on a motor scooter, but couldn’t catch up with you!”“Interesting, these ‘mists of collusion,’ how literary. Aren’t I the subject of investigation,too?”A Si opened the door and invited him into the apartment. He insisted insteadon standing at the entrance.“Oh, Miss Si, how can you see yourself this way? It’s not good. I’ve alwaysthought . . . I won’t lie to you, I’ve always thought you were one of the most importantpeople in this apartment complex.”“Now that I have a big scar on my completely bald head, look—.” She took offher hat to show him. “What do you think now? Do you still think I’m important?”A Si sat down, the light in her eyes duller. Looking at the dirty straw hat inher hand, she began to remember what had happened during the night. Wherehad Long Sixiang and Mr. You gone? It seemed as though they were the only oneswho could go down into hell. She could not remember how she had gotten home.There seemed to have been so many wheelbarrows on the road always pressingher to one side. She had fallen into the gutter once. Hadn’t the three of themstarted out looking for Wei Bo? How had she clean forgotten this?“The scar on your head doesn’t affect your status in the apartment complex.”The old man placed the basket of flowers on her table and withdrew.A Si was grateful to him because he was the only one in the apartment complexwho showed any concern for her. As for his reporting her to authorities, thatcould be forgiven. For someone as publicized as she was, there would always bepeople who informed. She had just heard him say she was one of the most importantpeople in the apartments. What did that mean? A Si thought of herself asimportant, of course, but she had never considered whether she was importantto this community. She hadn’t interacted with the other residents of the CamelliaApartments, except for this Informant. She had assumed the Camellia Apartmentswere a paradise of happiness because the few happy events in her life hadtaken place here. As this miniature world tolerated her happiness, it was essentiallygood. In comparison to the mill, that sealed boxcar, she could certainly callthe Camellia Apartments a “paradise of happiness.”She walked out onto the balcony. She saw that the sun was out as well as afew bareheaded men just leaving the apartment complex. They were all wearingblack suits, tall, thin, and seeming to lack confidence. A Si sighed again andagain as she watched them closely. She began to recall the boys of her youngerdays who’d resembled these men. She hallucinated that time was flowing backward.So much had happened since then! She told herself, “A Si, don’t forget therose.”She made herself noodles, singing cheerfully as she watched them boil in thepot. It was a nursery rhyme, the one her father had sung, stopping and starting,the day before he passed. The lyrics were about the lonely life of a brown bear.When she was little she cried every time she sang it, especially when she got tothe part about “its fur.” She suddenly became conscious that she sang this songbecause Wei Bo had gone to prison. Wasn’t he the bear?A Si, in a grateful frame of mind, analyzed her good fortune while she ate herspinach noodles. The rays of sun in the air were so brilliant. Even in his gloomyprison cell Wei Bo could enjoy the sunshine. He had a special talent, whichA Si had experienced, for building a beautiful world for himself. Under whatcold moon, over what bleak desert was he wandering today? After all, hadn’t hegone to prison in order to have a more searching life? Perhaps she’d never reallyunderstood Wei Bo. His nature had another side to it. What should she do torepay the warmth he’d given her? She thought back and forth, and felt the bestthing to do was to forget Wei Bo. Only this would repay his goodness.A Si buried Wei Bo in the abyss of her heart and did not think of him again.When she woke up from a long dream, she started to think of the vigorous,frenetic opium dealer. Where was that guy who always came and went like aghost? When he had been here, he’d wanted to take her to the border region.He wanted her to experience the pleasure of his death-wishadventures. A Si wasnot interested. She thought taking risks for money was meaningless. They oftenfought over this issue. The opium dealer would slam the door and leave afteraccusing A Si of having “narrow interests.” Before too long he would be backthrough the door again. A Si thought he was as naive as a child. She felt that ifsomeone was in the state of mind to seek out death, no one could prevent it. Itsaddened her, but she prayed that he would enjoy the moment of his death tothe greatest extent possible. She repeatedly imagined the scene of him on thetruck being shot by the border patrol. He was the kind of man who shows calculatedbravery when it comes to himself. A Si found this quality of his captivating.When Long Sixiang announced that she was taking her to meet someone,A Si’s heart pounded and started to race. So many years had passed. Was thisstill necessary?“No, not your mother, someone else. He’s one of my customers. You alreadyknow him.”So A Si met a neighbor from her childhood, two years younger than she was,in the spa’s dimly lit tearoom. He had grown into a handsome man. He claimedthat he had never been able to forget A Si.Once Long Sixiang left, the man’s face became blurred. A Si sensed a deception.“Are you really Xiao Qi?” she asked him.“Don’t you think I look like him?” he asked in return.“I don’t know. I think you look similar, but not the same. The expression onyour face fluctuates too much. When I look at you from the left and from theright, I see completely different men. The light in here is too low. Move underthis lamp. Aaah!” She let out a scream.Long Sixiang appeared at her cry, and the man ran away.“He’s not Xiao Qi. He’s a policeman. You should be afraid of him,” A Si said,trembling.Long Sixiang started to laugh, hugged A Si tight, and said soothingly, “Maybe.He’s my customer, at any rate, and I can’t be scared of my customers. With us,who’s afraid of whom? After we take off our clothes I can tell him to go to hell!Do you want me to help you get revenge, A Si? Let me tell you, though, he reallyis very gentle.”“It’s possible,” A Si said, sinking into thought. “After working in this businessfor a while, we know that a person has many faces,” she added.“You’re right.” Sixiang looked at her admiringly and patted her on the shoulder.“He was the one who wanted to see you. He has a guilty conscience aboutyou. He said he was your neighbor Xiao Qi. Is he Xiao Qi or isn’t he?”“Is he Xiao Qi or isn’t he?” A Si repeated this irritating question like an echo.“I think he is! Once he told me he’d turned into a black panther, then changedback again. Oh no! It’s pouring outside, and he ran out into the rain. What a pity.He said that he changed into a panther out of terror. All day he would say, ‘Letme turn into a panther, let me turn into a panther,’ until he actually became one.”“How is that possible?” A Si muttered.“Why couldn’t it be? It’s his character! Haven’t you seen that yet? No wonderyou don’t love him, while he has always loved you.”In that tiny tearoom, listening to the sound of the rain striking the asphalt, thethoughts of the two women lingered on all of the dangerous situations throughwhich they had passed. It was satisfying to savor past danger from a position ofsafety, and they were both eager to tell each other these fantastic stories. Theybasked in the warm, familiar affection of the conversation. Then Long Sixianginterrupted, “I don’t think he’s left. Do you want to see him?”A Si again trembled uncontrollably. Long Sixiang left.The policeman came back in and sat timidly in a corner of the tearoom.“Why did you pretend that you’d cut off your hand that day in the interrogationroom?”The policeman hung his head at first, but raised it to sweep A Si with his eyeswhen he heard her question.A Si saw the chill light in his eyes and couldn’t stop the severe shaking.“It was fear, of course. You’re the kind of woman who makes me afraid. I’vecut myself many times trying to test my ability to feel. You see—”He pulled up the leg of his trousers, revealing his scars. She counted for a moment.There were six altogether, one lined up next to another. The leg was visiblythinner than his other one because of the cuts.“When I saw you, I had the impulse to perform. I’m not fit for police work becauseI’m attracted to you whores. I’ve resigned, I lost my job. I wish you wouldchange your opinion of me.”“So are you really Xiao Qi? You used to be as skinny as a monkey.”“I often ask myself that. If even you can’t recognize me, it’s clear that it will behard for me to change back into myself. Yesterday I heard Sixiang mention you,and it upset me. I told her I had to see you and apologize face-to-face.”“What will you do for a living?”“Oh, don’t worry. I’m earning my way. I opened a sesame cake stand. I weardark glasses when I serve shoppers. Business is good. I know the way people seethings can’t change in just a short time. At least the dark glasses don’t get in theway.”“Don’t lose heart.” A Si grew calmer. “There is nothing to be afraid of. Justcount to yourself—one, two, three!—to be brave. That’s what I used to do.”“Thank you, A Si. Now the knot in my heart is untied. Remember, you have afriend at the sesame cake stand. You are welcome there any time.”Wei Bo, feeling downcast, had not contacted Cuilan for many days. He did gooften to the alleyway next to the theater, even though he never ventured deeperinside. The quiet depths of the hutong with the buildings on both sides blockingthe sky frightened him. There were several gaps on both sides of the concretesurface, with small patches of open ground in the breaches. He had spent thatearlier night on one of these pieces of open ground until the street cleaners drovehim back to the world above. He counted down more than a hundred stairs fromthe main road to this level. After the descent there was an empty flat space thatfunctioned as an open market, with a few suspect-lookingvendors all hawkingcigarettes, though heaven knew what they were really selling. The backs of thebuildings encircling this flat, empty space had no doors, only windows, and thesingle hutong opened onto it.After his first visit Wei Bo felt deeply drawn to this place. He even thoughtof inviting Cuilan to come here with him. Concealed by the curtain of night,he would tell Cuilan in the dark about his former relationship with Miss Si andabout how he loathed himself. Or he wouldn’t talk about these things, but insteadabout his mysterious hometown and the connection between his hometownand Cuilan’s. In fact, he didn’t know what relationship there was betweenthe two ancestral homes, but he had a vague feeling that in the alleyway’s depthsthe solution to the riddle would flash into his mind. Of course, what was hethinking? He couldn’t invite Cuilan here. Hadn’t he planned to distance himselffrom her gradually?There was a vendor with a straw hat who spoke with a Shanxi accent. He putan arm around Wei Bo’s shoulders, blew the smoke of an inferior cigarette in hisface, and said, “We have more fun over there. Aren’t you coming? The spot is inthe basement of that building. We call it the Valley of Forgetting. The women areall first rate. Some are tigers!”Wei Bo pushed him away with force. He heard the man groan. He was ill,perhaps dying. He smoked cheap cigarettes, but dealt in the highest quality RedPagoda Mountain brand.The vendor slowly fell to his knees, his cigarettes spilling onto the ground. Insteadof collapsing, he knelt, muttering. Wei Bo went over, gathered up the cigarettes, and placed them in the man’s cloth bag. In the man’s ambiguous words,Wei Bo could hear his fervent hope. What did he hope for? Wei Bo thought of hisown life, a tangle of string, and became curious about the vendor. He spent allhis time in this ominous den while filled with a beautiful longing!“I’m saving up energy and wealth,” the man offered.“Why?”“To have a glorious life. Sometimes I think I might as well go to prison. Itwould be better for contemplation. What do you think of my idea?”“It’s a good idea. How come I’ve never thought of it? You see, I’m too narrow-minded.My father was an outstanding man. I’m not a bit like him.”Wei Bo suddenly felt that in his distant childhood, at his father’s old home, hehad experienced a moment like this one. Put it this way: Wei Bo had forgottenhis roots. His present melancholy was because of forgetting his roots. He hadlost the enlightenment his father and the others had given him by pushing it tothe back of his mind. He drifted through life without ambition. He had not, fundamentally,reflected on his life.“You might not see me here tomorrow,” the morose vendor said. “My nameis Yuan Hei. I’m a guard, but soon I won’t be. I want to be a criminal. What doyou think?”“Interesting.” Wei Bo’s answer was also morose.All of a sudden the sky clouded over, and a cold wind gusted through the alleyway.Wei Bo said goodbye to Yuan Hei and left for home. At the stairs he turnedback and saw that the vendor had lain down on a wooden chair. He seemed tofeel neither the wind nor the rain. Wei Bo thought that the man’s inner self mustbe strong.Wei Bo climbed more than a hundred stairs to the sidewalk. The wind continuedto blow down the avenue. It was about to rain. He didn’t want to go home.The door of the theater was open, and there were still tickets for the performanceof La Traviata. He bought a ticket and went inside.He entered from an upstairs side door, feeling his way in the dark to a seat atthe back. The stage lights were dimmed, with only a spotlight illuminating theLady of the Camellias, who was, oddly, wearing a black skirt. Her arias were unbearable,sounding as she did like a woman from the countryside wailing at afuneral. Wei Bo wondered, Was this really La Traviata? The Lady of the Camelliasalways sang alone, her words incomprehensible. The other actors never appearedonstage. Wei Bo grew impatient listening. There was a couple in the rowin front of him, the man embracing the woman and whispering sweet nothingsthe entire time.The Lady of the Camellias finally finished singing. Once she stopped the stagewas an expanse of blackness, as was the auditorium, where the doors and windowswere all closed tight. Wei Bo wanted to leave, but could not move. Somemembers of the audience were skipping over the seats, stepping on him andcursing him for being “old and past his time.” As they shoved him back and forth,a large man suddenly picked him up and placed him in the aisle. The peoplearound Wei Bo started to cheer. Many were saying, “He’s escaping! He’s gettingaway! Ha ha . . .” Then an extremely small side door appeared in front of him.The audience members were bending over to squeeze through it. Wei Bo linedup at the back until it was his turn and wormed his way outside.He stood on a street where he had never been before, the cold wind blowingso hard it made him sneeze. The audience dispersed rapidly, leaving him alonestanding on the sidewalk debating which way he should go. He had no plans inmind. It appeared to be a business district, with no shops, and not a single pedestrianin sight. He had just decided to go to the left when he saw the Lady of theCamellias dressed in black emerging from the same small side door. Her facewas coated with powder so that she looked like a ghost. Wei Bo felt a gust of illwind strike him.“Young man, let’s walk together.” The woman spoke naturally, taking his arm.Wei Bo saw the wrinkled hand of an elderly woman.“I’ve sung La Traviata for forty years. What was your impression?”“I—I’m confused—in the theater . . .”“Correct, young man! Very good feedback. You respect my work!”The old woman pulled him by the arm into the center of the road. There wereno cars or pedestrians, which seemed to please her.“I love strolling down the avenue just like this—without taking off my costume,looking like a ghost. As I walk along, I can see my husband who died.”“When you were singing onstage, I thought that you must have had a gloriouslife—to tell the truth, I’ve only realized this now. At the time I did not respond,I—my mind was full of chaotic thoughts. I was too impatient to listen toyou. Now, though, as you and I walk along in the wind, I can recall your brilliantperformance and fall right in love with you! It truly was a stirring performance.”Wei Bo felt he was about to weep. He struck himself on the forehead in contrition.“Young man, did you see him?”“Who?”“My dead husband. He’s there, turning things over in the trash can. He’s persistent,he’ll eat whatever’s there. I think he will always be near me.” A terrifyingsmile appeared on her face.“Of course he will. You’ve had such a glorious life together. You’re not likeme, I’m a useless piece of trash, an empty shell. People like me should disappearfrom the earth.”“Please don’t say things like that. People who give up on themselves don’t deserveto be my audience.”They walked back and forth along the empty street, talking about performing.Once in a while, the elderly woman would ask, “Did you see him?” in an ardenttone of voice. Then Wei Bo would say he had seen him. He talked with her abouthis past life. A few times he found himself almost weeping, but he willed himselfnot to cry. Slowly, he stopped thinking he should give up on himself. Theold woman led him to experience a different kind of life, and he leaped at thechance to try it.“Where do you live?”“Over on that side, in the fifteen-storybuilding. It’s been lovely to take a walkwith you.”The actress walked in the direction of the tall building. A gust of wind liftedher black skirt, and Wei Bo saw her fly upward like a great bird, both feet leavingthe ground. She alighted at the entrance to the building. The door opened itself,she all but flapped through it, then the door shut. The large black door with itspair of copper ring handles made a mournful impression. Before long her ariaemerged through an upstairs window, although Wei Bo could not understand aword. Someone spoke to him. He turned around and saw the vendor who hadbeen wearing a straw hat.“Do you know who she is?” he asked.“I don’t know.”“The capital’s most famous soprano, who suffers from a psychological mania.She’s always lived in a sanatorium. Then our theater’s manager invited her tocome. She changed her stage name and stepped onstage to perform.”“How do you know what goes on backstage?”“Because I’m her ex-husband.”Wei Bo only then looked carefully at the vendor, whom he discovered to be atleast seventy, older than he had thought. He felt as though he understood somethingof the vendor’s mental state.“I can tell that you love each other,” Wei Bo said.“Naturally. Mania is a wonderful illness. Without falling to this level, we cannotknow how deep our love is. Have you heard her sing onstage?”“I have. A unique performance—at the time I could not react to it, and I onlyrealized later that it was unforgettable. Your wife is an incredible genius.”“But genius does not suit romance.”“Maybe not. I was deeply moved. You will carry on, I have a premonition. Howcould you not love a woman like her? She’s too beautiful.”“Yes, I am a worshiper of beauty, as well as a sacrificial victim. I’m willingto be sacrificed. You see, she’s on the fifteenth floor, while I live in the miserablebasement rooms I share with the prostitutes. First thing every morning Igo out to sell cigarettes, and then return late at night. It’s so noisy in our apartmentthere’ve even been murders over it. I’ve grown old and can’t be as activeas them anymore, so I stay outdoors as much as I can. Look, your friend is hereto meet you.”Wei Bo turned to look and saw Mr. You. It turned out that without his knowingit they had walked to the street where the soap factory dormitories were.Turning his head again, he no longer saw the elderly man. Maybe he had goneto the public bathroom.“He’s a moneylender,” Mr. You said. “He’s responsible for two people’s lives.There’s a rumor that he became a moneylender because of that woman, then,after he went to prison, she threw off their marriage. Today he is greatly changed.Thirty years ago, he inspired awe in this city!”“Do you envy him?” Wei Bo asked.“Yes. There aren’t many people like him left, the same way there aren’t manyLongquan celadon vases. He’s an authentic product. He was nearly sentenced todeath and even hauled off to the execution site before being sent back. When Iwas little I saw it with my own eyes. I went with some people to watch the excitement.I saw the others fall, but he was put back on the truck. Then, to our surprise,they released him into the street.”“How strange!”“Yes, the events of that time cannot be understood. His former wife is themost impenetrable part. After she broke off with him she went mad and went tolive in the finest sanatorium in the capital. When she grew older, I don’t knowwhy, she returned to her hometown to perform onstage. Some people say she’sinvolved with the manager of the theater.”“Aren’t you bitter?” Wei Bo took careful note of him.“Why would I come here looking for you if I weren’t bitter? Why haven’t Ibeen as fortunate as him? To my mind he’s lived like an emperor.”“You’re right, Mr. You. You see things extremely well. I met him in the smallarea underneath the theater. He has inner calm; the pathways of his mind areopen. He’s ill, of course, but which of us isn’t? He’s a brave man with a purposein life.”“Are you going home, Wei Bo? It’s good to have a home, but for me as impossible as paradise. I mean that it’s too late for me. I have an appointment with thespecters. Every night I must sleep among the ancient tombs, while you . . . everyopportunity is yours.”Wei Bo, watching him, returned all of a sudden to thirty years earlier. At thattime there had been a small bird always singing under the city’s blazing sky.What did the man in front of him expect from him? Mr. You was politely wavinggoodbye, but he had been waiting here to meet Wei Bo, to talk with him abouthis mental distress. Wei Bo stared at his shadowy receding back, certain that hewas no ordinary man. Mr. You knew everything. He could reenact the Lady ofthe Camellias’ emotional life in his mind at any time. Wei Bo’s youth, like thatof many people, had its time of passion, but the Wei Bo of that time was a foolbanished to the outside of life. Now he seemed to have grown a little more intelligent,although he was still bad at coping with life’s difficulties. He rememberedthat Cuilan had once told him Mr. You was a distant relative of hers and presidedover a secret in her life. She was desperate to know the secret, but didn’t wantto be associated with this painted and powdered man. Mr. You had said everyopportunity was Wei Bo’s, when he had already dedicated himself to an undertakingthat had no affinity with everyday life. Had Mr. You been expressing hisgenuine feelings?Wei Bo stood under the scholartree in front of his house and once againthought of Cuilan. This woman, her way of carrying herself and her manner,were so well-suitedto what he wanted. Why couldn’t he live with her outright?Wei Bo didn’t know and only sensed that it would be dangerous. It would be possibleto lose her completely. Not only because of her, but also because of the defectsin his character. His innate shortcomings were obvious. Why would he beavoiding her otherwise? He had devils on his conscience.His home was deserted. His wife Xiao Yuan was traveling for work. He hadmade a spiritual journey outside the home and returned. What had he accomplished?There was a photograph of his deceased father in a picture frame onthe wall. His father looked at him calmly, as if he were about to place the pieceof cloth in his hand over Wei Bo’s eyes. Oh, what a father! At home, ordinarily,he hadn’t responded to things emotionally. He had neither discussed his ancestralhome with Wei Bo’s mother, nor returned there with her. Even so, he was akind husband and father. He had left the world too early. Wei Bo could rememberhim sitting in a large armchair with the setting sun illuminating him as hislips moved soundlessly a few times, and then as he closed his eyes with a tiredexpression. It seemed as though he were pleased with his life. The young Wei Bohad thought that a man who came from that enormous mansion might even bethe master of his own life and death. When this idea occurred to him, a detailappeared in his mind: his aunt sat in a corner drinking water from a jade brushpot, saying to him, “This is called ‘drinking ink.’ This is education.” Could hisfather have taught him, through imperceptible influence, how to live in his ownway, and the skill of overcoming life’s sorrows? Wei Bo did not know how theman on the wall had done this.“I’m almost forty-eightyears old,” Wei Bo said to his father on the wall.His father seemed to grin for a moment. Naturally it was an illusion. Hisfather had seldom smiled. What would have happened if Wei Bo had rebelled onthe train and torn off the eyeshade? His father knew he wouldn’t. He understoodhis son so well that he knew curiosity came before everything else. He introducedhis son to that ancient house while never letting him get a sense of thestructure of its interior or its location. Wei Bo harbored a deep love and respectfor his father precisely for these reasons.Outside someone heaved a sigh. It sounded like Mr. You. Hadn’t he said goodbye?He was difficult to fathom. Wei Bo opened the door, and Mr. You squeezedinside.“I have nowhere to escape to,” he said with a miserable face.“I heard you and Cuilan are relatives.” Wei Bo watched him attentively.“No, you can’t say we’re relatives. Look, how can people like you and menot recognize each other, no matter where we meet? Her father and I, in thosedays—no, I won’t drag out this idle conversation with you. Let me ask you, howwould you evaluate your relationship with her? Don’t you know? Damn it, youshould be forging ahead.”Wei Bo started to laugh, Mr. You roared. After the laughter passed, Mr. Yousaid seriously, “Now I really will go back. There’s a batch of Song dynasty wareslocked in my room. The underworld has an eye on it. Could tonight be my finalend?”“It’s dangerous for people like you who casually reveal secrets,” Wei Bo said.“I am not casually revealing secrets. You’re the only person I’ve told.”“So you see me as a relative?”“Ha! What does being a relative matter? Wei Bo, do you really not understand,or are you just pretending not to?”“I really don’t understand.”“You fail me, too, like Sixiang and Cuilan. You can just be confused then. Idon’t want to tell you everything. As someone without hope, it’s all the sameto me.”This time he really left. Wei Bo followed him out and watched him turn thecorner before vanishing at the end of the street.Thinking of what Mr. You had said, Wei Bo felt that he had failed Cuilan andLong Sixiang. He had not become the brave man he could have been, like the Ladyof the Camellias’ former husband, for instance, or even Mr. You. What did WeiBo count for now? He was just a guy who went looking for small, meaninglessadvantages over other people. He was worth less than one of Long Sixiang’s toes.Suddenly exhausted, he threw together noodles for a meal and went to bedvery early. He slept only a half hour or so before waking up again.Mr. You was back outside calling to him. The sky was already dark.In an irritated mood, Wei Bo opened the door and stepped out. Mr. You stoodin front of him hanging his head, on which a large welt was swelling.“You see, the lives of people in my line of business are in constant danger.”Wei Bo noticed the excitement in his voice and became excited in turn. Hestayed quiet, wanting to hear Mr. You describe what had happened to him. At thismoment he envied the antiques appraiser.“Oh, there’s nothing to say. It always happens this way. They come, push, hit,jostle, and spit. Then everything disappears except their smell hanging in the air,while you sink into despair.”“Why into despair?” Wei Bo asked naively.“Because of love, and because of not wanting to let go of things.”“So that’s what happens. And you wait for them every night?”“You’ve finally figured something out. I always said you were in the know.There could be a label stuck on your head. You’re the kind who’s always lovingdifferent people and causing problems where there are none.”“Will you come inside for a rest?”“No rest. Look, it’s almost one a.m. This is when the groups of men usuallycome and shatter the display cases downstairs with sticks, pa pa pa.”He left once again. Wei Bo thought he would probably wander like thisthrough the night.Wei Bo got into bed and turned off the light, his thoughts entering Mr. You’santiques shop. In the high-ceilingedhall, the jade wares glistened insidiously inthe dark. When car headlights swept across them, one or two jumped, startled,making a brittle ding ding dang dang sound. How could someone preserve a kindof love for decades in an environment like this? Wei Bo felt as though he understoodsomething of this love, but that was far from genuine understanding. Perhapshe understood nothing, and simply felt a similar tender emotion for thisman? In the days of Wei Bo’s emotional crisis, hadn’t Mr. You brought him unexpectedrevelations again and again?Wei Bo’s wife Xiao Yuan returned. Her train always reached the station in themiddle of the night, strangely enough!“Xiao Yuan, was it you who took my pocket watch?” He lay motionless insleep.“Yes, Wei Bo. When I travel for work I always like to measure the time exactly.I have to bring at least three timepieces. During the day I also watch the sun constantly.”Xiao Yuan went to the door of the bedroom and held up the pocket watch forWei Bo to see. In the dark the pocket watch shone in all directions as radiant asthe sun. Wei Bo nearly tumbled out of bed.“The pocket watch is here, I’ll put it in the cabinet for you.”She went into the next room. Wei Bo saw that the door of the cabinet was notshut tight, and rays of light streamed from inside. He sat up, but then, thinkingit over, went back to sleep. The new interest his wife Xiao Yuan had developedfrightened him. How this world was suddenly flying forward!In Wei Bo’s memories, objects like pocket watches, safety pins, and old-fashionedmagnifying glasses all belonged to a class of mysterious and supernaturalthings. Yet this was only his generalized notion, and not something hehad divulged to Xiao Yuan. Before, in the old house, his uncle had let him seea magnifying glass in the study. His uncle placed the magnifying glass over anancient book’s bamboo paper and said, “Look.” Wei Bo looked through the glassand saw a black eye, three-dimensionaland slowly revolving. He was too surprisedto speak. “Don’t be afraid, you just need to get used to it. Relax, look at theright side, look over here. Good!” his uncle kindly guided him. Wei Bo observedfor about five minutes. The eyeball was wherever he looked, with a sharp line betweenthe crystalline lens and the gelatinous part.He drummed up the courage to ask his uncle, “This isn’t a magnifying glass,is it?”“Of course it’s a magnifying glass!” his uncle reproached him. “This is what amagnifying glass does, it makes things larger for your eyes—and enlarges eyes.”As he finished saying this he locked the object in the desk. Afterward his unclenever mentioned it to Wei Bo again, and he even locked the study.When Wei Bo called to mind the incident with the magnifying glass, he unexpectedlyunderstood the meaning of the words “Go back often to see your hometown.”This was the sentence the vagrant named Long Hair had said to him besidethe theater. He could not find on a map his father’s family home, his ownfamily home, which was probably where all of this had originated. Recently WeiBo had noticed more and more that everyone around him was longing for thepast. The enormous power in memories of the past was permeating present-daylife, eroding the judgment of every person, himself included. Wei Bo had heardlong ago of the passing of his uncle and aunt. The ancient house must have beendemolished long ago, too.While eating breakfast, he asked Xiao Yuan, “Did you go to see La Traviata atthe theater?”“Yes, I’ve seen it three times. A remarkable woman!”“Some people say she’s a nervous wreck.”“What of it? We’re all nervous wrecks.”Wei Bo once again sensed that Xiao Yuan was an extremely intelligent woman.“I haven’t been to the theater for over a year. When I went yesterday, it felt likethere’d been a transformation. I can’t say what exactly changed, but as I sat there,everything surprised me,” Wei Bo said.Xiao Yuan made a face at Wei Bo and lowered her head to examine the pocketwatch on the table.“Without warning, it can shine like the sun.” Wei Bo pointed at the pocketwatch.Mr. You called to Wei Bo from outside, and Wei Bo hurried out.After a night of misery Mr. You looked like a vampire. His shoelaces were untied,too, so he might trip and fall over at any moment.“Wei Bo, Wei Bo, why haven’t I been able to catch them?” he said and thenwalked on carelessly.Wei Bo returned to the house and saw Xiao Yuan still staring at the pocketwatch.“This watch has lasted from when your father was young straight through tothis moment. It’s rare, isn’t it? It has the quality of flowing water. Your father wasfond of wandering around rivers and lakes,” Xiao Yuan said.“I didn’t notice whether he was or not. He wasn’t someone who showed hisemotions.”“Haven’t I said that when I travel for work I take at least three clocks?”“You said that yesterday.”“I do that because when I’m away everything becomes so subtle. Sometimesit’s as free as hovering in midair, going to the south, to the west . . . I don’t like tobe too free.” As she spoke she picked up the watch, made a motion as if she weregoing to smash it on the floor, and then carefully placed it back in the cabinet.“I’ve been to where the Lady of the Camellias lives in the capital.”“What?” Wei Bo panicked.“It’s true. She lives in a sanatorium—what kind of sanatorium is that? A gardenfull of decaying ancient trees with strange growths on the trunks and bizarrelyshaped red leaves growing from the burls. There’s a kind of bird I’d neverseen before with a hook on its beak that perches on the burls and pecks away atthem with a constant shrill cry. The Lady of the Camellias sat among the treeswearing a white cotton skirt. She appeared to be sleeping. As I walked quicklyup to her I suddenly heard her say, ‘I wake up because someone calls me. Is itour hometown’s honored guest?’ I introduced myself to her. She listened to meseriously and held my hand tight. She said she was waiting in the forest for her‘beloved,’ but her hometown’s guest arrived instead. Her eyes watched me withoutseeing me. She had penetrating vision—I could feel her gaze pass throughmy face to a faraway place. She said she wanted to sing and then began her song.How could that be called singing? It was random shrieking. After the burst ofscreaming she became silent, without any expression left on her face. She hadforgotten I was there. She has a kind of power that leaves you staring open-mouthed.I don’t know what the nature of her power is. I turned and ran fromthe sanatorium. I found a secluded place and wept for a while. This happenedten years ago.”“Was it really the Lady of the Camellias you saw?” Wei Bo asked.“It’s difficult to say. The face was unfamiliar but very beautiful. I think it washer. Who else could it have been? Although it might not have been the Lady ofthe Camellias, but just me taking her to be.”“This is too frightening.”“Is it? I’m very brave.”Xiao Yuan began to float in front of Wei Bo. Wei Bo rubbed his eyes, trying tomake certain both her feet had not left the ground. For a moment the noise ofbowls and chopsticks clattering against each other came from the kitchen sink.After Long Sixiang’s infant stopped breathing, she fainted onto the woodenfloor of the hospital.She revived two days and two nights later. She discovered herself lying in theemergency room with a needle in her arm receiving an infusion. There was aspectral man with his back to her standing by the door.She did not know how much time passed before she recognized him as herhusband Xiao Wu.“Xiao Wu, whatever you do, don’t turn around and look at me,” she said feebly.He submissively slipped out of the room.After having her son cremated Long Sixiang returned to her family, squeezinginto a tiny storage room next to her parents’ bedroom. She went back to work atthe cotton mill. During the day and at night, her dead son clung to her like anevil spirit. Her cheeks sank inward. The expression in her eyes became that ofthe mentally ill. Over that stretch of time, her parents hid everything that mightremind her of her son and no longer allowed their son-in-lawinto their home.It was not that they held this big fellow responsible, but rather that they knewLong Sixiang’s mind. Their daughter was not ready to see their son-in-law,becauseon seeing him she would think of the infant, and soon after that she wouldlose her mind. All day long their daughter’s face was ashen. It was a completenervous breakdown.